## Short communication

## High sodium ion conductivity of glass e ceramic electrolytes with cubic Na3PS4

## Akitoshi Hayashi * , Kousuke Noi, Naoto Tanibata, Motohiro Nagao, Masahiro Tatsumisago

Department of Applied Chemistry, Graduate School of Engineering, Osaka Prefecture University, 1-1 Gakuencho, Naka-ku, Sakai, Osaka 599-8531, Japan

## h i g h l i g h t s

- /C15 Na3PS4 electrolyte with conductivity of 4.6 /C2 10 /C0 4 S cm /C0 1 was prepared.
- /C15 All-solid-state sodium batteries (Na15Sn4/Na3PS4/NaCrO2) were fabricated.
- /C15 High purity of Na2S contributes to enhancing conductivity of Na3PS4 electrolyte.

## a r t i c l e i n f o

Article history: Received 8 January 2014 Received in revised form 12 February 2014 Accepted 14 February 2014 Available online 22 February 2014

## Keywords:

Solid electrolyte Sodium battery All-solid-state battery Glass e ceramics

## 1. Introduction

Lithium-ion batteries have already been commercially used as rechargeable power sources for mobile devices and vehicle applications. Compared to lithium-ion batteries, sodium-ion batteries are cost-effective because of using natural abundance sodium sources and thus have an advantage for future versatile applications to electric vehicles and backup storages at individual houses and large-scale solar and wind farms [1,2]. In 1970s, transition metal sul /uniFB01 des such as TiS2 and MoS2 were studied as positive electrodes for sodium-ion cells [3]. The cells exhibited an excellent cycle performance and the average operating potential is ca. 2 V vs. Na þ /Na. Recently, sodium-ion batteries have been intensively studied since hard-carbon was applied as a negative electrode instead of sodium metal [4]. 3 V-class positive electrode materials

* Corresponding author. Tel./fax: þ 81 72 2549334. E-mail address: hayashi@chem.osakafu-u.ac.jp (A. Hayashi).

## a b s t r a c t

Sul /uniFB01 de solid electrolytes with cubic Na3PS4 phase has relatively high sodium ion conductivity of over 10 /C0 4 S cm /C0 1 at room temperature, and all-solid-state sodium batteries Na e Sn/TiS2 with the electrolyte operated as a secondary battery at room temperature. To improve battery performance, conductivity enhancement of sul /uniFB01 de electrolytes is important. In this study, we have succeeded in enhancing conductivity by optimizing preparation conditions of Na3PS4 glass e ceramic electrolytes. By use of crystalline Na2S with high purity of 99.1%, cubic Na3PS4 crystals were directly precipitated by ball milling process at the composition of 75Na2S $ 25P2S5 (mol%). The glass e ceramic electrolyte prepared by milling for 1.5 h and consecutive heat treatment at 270 /C14 C for 1 h showed the highest conductivity of 4.6 /C2 10 /C0 4 S cm /C0 1 , which is twice as high as the conductivity of the cubic Na3PS4 glass e ceramic prepared in a previous report. All-solid-state Na e Sn/NaCrO2 cells with the newly prepared electrolyte exhibited charge e discharge cycles at room temperature and kept about 60 mAh per gram of NaCrO2 for 15 cycles.

/C211 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

such as Na x CoO2 [5], NaCrO2 [6,7], NaFeO2 [8], and Na2/3Fe1/2Mn1/ 2O2 [9], and 4 V-class Na4Co3(PO4)2P2O7 electrode [10] have been reported. In particular, NaCrO2 exhibits a capacity of ca. 120 mAh g /C0 1 with satis /uniFB01 ed capacity retention in both an organic liquid electrolyte (1 M NaClO4 in PC) [6] and an inorganic ionic liquid (NaFSA-KFSA) [7]. As a negative electrode, several materials of hard carbon [4], Na e Sn alloy [11,12] and Na2Ti3O7 [13] have also been found.

Solidi /uniFB01 cation of rechargeable batteries has several merits of high safety, long cycle life and versatile geometries [14 e 17]. Inorganic solid electrolytes with high sodium ion conductivity are needed to realize all-solid-state sodium batteries. Oxide crystalline electrolytes have been studied and high sodium ion conductivity of over 10 /C0 3 S cm /C0 1 is reported in b -alumina [18] and NASICON-type Na3Zr2Si2PO12 [19,20]. These oxide electrolytes need to be sintered at high temperatures of over 1000 /C14 C for reducing grain-boundary resistance. On the other hand, sul /uniFB01 de solid electrolytes have been mainly examined for glassy materials [21,22], and tetragonal Na3PS4 is only known to show sodium ion conductivity of

Contents lists available at ScienceDirect

## Journal of Power Sources

j o urnal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/jpowsour

10 /C0 6 S cm /C0 1 at 25 /C14 C [23]. Very recently, we have reported a cubic Na3PS4 phase was precipitated by crystallization of Na3PS4 mother glass and the prepared glass e ceramic electrolyte showed a sodium ion conductivity of 2 /C2 10 /C0 4 S cm /C0 1 [24]. Sul /uniFB01 de electrolytes have favorable mechanical properties for fabricating all-solid-state batteries [25]; grain-boundary resistance can be remarkably decreased by only cold press without high temperature sintering, and this is suitable for forming intimate solid e solid interfaces between electrode and electrolyte in all-solid-state batteries. Sul /uniFB01 de electrolytes have lower Young ' s modulus than oxide electrolytes and this mechanical property contributes to maintain solid e solid contacts during volume changes of electrodes at charge e discharge cycles [25]. In fact, all-solid-state Na e Sn/TiS2 cells with the Na3PS4 glass e ceramic electrolyte prepared by cold press operated as rechargeable sodium batteries at room temperature [24]. The glass e ceramic with cubic Na3PS4 phase exhibited the highest conductivity in sul /uniFB01 de electrolytes reported so far. An increase in conductivity of the sul /uniFB01 de glass e ceramics contributes to improving electrochemical performance of all-solid-state sodium cells.

In this study, we have succeeded in an increase in the conductivity of Na3PS4 glass e ceramics by twice as the previous report [24]. Crystalline Na2S with a higher purity was used as a starting material and then preparation conditions for glass e ceramics with cubic Na3PS4 were optimized. The prepared glass e ceramic showed the conductivity of 4.6 /C2 10 /C0 4 S cm /C0 1 at room temperature and was applied to all-solid-state sodium cells using NaCrO2 active material. This is the /uniFB01 rst report for all-solid-state sodium cells with a 3 Vclass oxide positive electrode.

## 2. Experimental

Na3PS4 glass was prepared by a mechanochemical technique using a planetary ball mill (Fritsch, Pulverisette 7) in the same manner reported [24]. In this study, highly pure Na2S (99.1 wt%) donated by Nagao Co. was used instead of reagent-grade Na2S purchased from Sigma e Aldrich Co.; the purity of the latter Na2S was 95.1 wt%, which was determined using combination of oxidation e reduction titration and neutralization by Nagao Co. The impurities detected are Na2CO3, Na2SO3 and Na2S2O3 and, in particular, the Na2S reagent (Sigma e Aldrich Co.) includes 4 times larger amount of Na2SO3 than the Na2S reagent (Nagao Co). The starting materials of 75 mol% Na2S (Nagao Co.) and 25 mol% P2S5 (Sigma e Aldrich Co.) were hand-ground and the mixture was then placed into a zirconia (ZrO2) vessel (internal volume of 45 mL) with 500 ZrO2 balls (4 mm in diameter). The mechanochemical reaction was performed for 0.5 e 20 h at a /uniFB01 xed rotation speed of the base disk of 510 rpm. The prepared sample was then heated at 220 or 270 /C14 C for 1 e 4 h in an electric furnace to prepare glass e ceramics. All processes were performed in a dry Ar atmosphere.

X-ray diffraction (XRD; Rigaku, Ultima IV) measurements of the prepared materials were performed to identify the crystalline phases. Microstructure and size of prepared particles were observed by scanning electron microscope (SEM; JEOL, JSM-6610A). The ionic conductivities of the pelletized samples were measured. Carbon paste was painted to form electrodes on both faces of the pellets. Two stainless-steel disks coupled with Pt wires were attached to the pellets as a current collector. AC impedance measurements were performed for the obtained two-electrode cell in a dry Ar gas atmosphere using an impedance analyzer (Solartron, 1260). Impedance was measured in the frequency range of 0.1 Hz e 8 MHz at temperatures from 25 to 100 /C14 C.

An all-solid-state Na15Sn4/NaCrO2 cell with the Na3PS4 glass e ceramic electrolyte was fabricated. NaCrO2 active material was synthesized by solid-state reaction in the same manner reported in the literature [6]. A working electrode was prepared by well-mixing of NaCrO2, Na3PS4 glass e ceramic electrolyte, and acetylene black (AB) with the weight ratio of 4:6:1. A Na15Sn4 e AB composite as a counter electrode was prepared by mechanical milling for the mixture of Na, Sn and AB; the weight ratio of Na15Sn4:AB was 20:3. The formation of a single phase of Na15Sn4 (JCPDS: 071-9879) was con /uniFB01 rmed by XRD. The working electrode and the solid electrolyte powders were placed in a 10-mm-diameter polycarbonate tube and pressed together by applying a pressure of 70 MPa. The Na15Sn4 e AB composite was then placed on the surface of the solid electrolyte side of the bilayer pellet and a pressure of 360 MPa was applied to the three-layered pellet. The three-layered pellet was sandwiched between two stainless-steel rods as current collectors. Electrochemical tests were conducted at a constant current density of 0.013, 0.064 or 0.13 mA cm /C0 2 in the voltage range from 1.2 to 4.0 V at room temperature under an Ar atmosphere using a charge e discharge measurement device (Nagano Co., BTS-2004).

## 3. Results and discussion

Fig. 1 shows X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns of Na3PS4 samples prepared by mechanical milling for different periods of time. Diffraction peaks attributable to starting materials of Na2S and P2S5 disappear after milling of 1.5 h and the peaks attributable to cubic Na3PS4 phase are newly observed. The intensity of the peaks increases with increasing milling periods of time. The XRD pattern of the Na3PS4 sample prepared in the previous paper [24] is also shown as comparison. In this study, cubic Na3PS4 phase was directly precipitated during milling process for over 0.5 h, while glass was prepared by milling for 20 h in the previous paper. The difference is in the reagent Na2S used for preparation. The use of reagent Na2S (99.1 wt%, Nagao Co.) as one of the starting materials results in reducing reaction time to produce glass e ceramic with cubic Na3PS4. Direct precipitation of crystalline phases during milling treatment was also reported in the system Li2S e Al2S3 [26]. The use of a high rotation speed (510 rpm) of planetary ball mill gave a direct crystallization of Li5AlS4 during ball milling for the mixture Li2S and Al2S3 crystals. Cubic Na3PS4 is crystallized via mechanochemical treatment in this study, while impurity components such as Na2SO3 in reagent Na2S used in the previous paper may play an important role on amorphization of electrolytes.

Fig. 1. XRD patterns of Na3PS4 samples prepared by mechanical milling for different periods of time. The XRD pattern of the Na3PS4 glass prepared by milling for 20 h in the previous paper [24] is also shown as comparison.

Fig. 2. XRD patterns of Na3PS4 glass e ceramics prepared by heat treatment at 270 /C14 C for 2 h for the glass used with Na2S (Sigma e Aldrich Co.) (a), and the same heat treatment at 270 /C14 C for 2 h for a partially crystallized sample prepared by milling for 1.5 h used with Na2S (Nagao Co.) (b). The peaks attributable to cubic Na3PS4 are denoted with solid circles, and the additional broad peaks with asterisks are the peak only assigned to tetragonal Na3PS4.

To improve crystallinity of cubic Na3PS4, the milled samples were heat-treated. Fig. 2 shows XRD patterns of Na3PS4 glass e ceramics prepared by heat treatment at 270 /C14 C for 2 h for the glass used with Na2S (Sigma e Aldrich Co.) (a), and the same heat treatmentat 270 /C14 C for 2 h for a partially crystallized sample prepared by milling for 1.5 h used with Na2S (Nagao Co.) (b). The intensity of the peaks attributable to cubic Na3PS4 increases with the heat treatment, while the full width of half maximum (FWHM) of the peaks decreases. The FWHM of the glass e ceramic (b) is 0.35 /C14 , which is somewhat larger than the FWHM of the glass e ceramic (a), 0.29 /C14 . XRD patterns attributable to tetragonal Na3PS4 (JCPDS #081-1472) are slightly observed in both the glass e ceramics, but there is no difference in the peak intensity. Fig. 3 shows the temperature dependence of conductivity for the glass e ceramics (a) and (b) denoted in Fig. 2. Conductivity obeys the Arrhenius equation, and activation energy for conduction was calculated. The glass e ceramic (b) shows smaller activation energy of 19 kJ mol /C0 1 than the glass e ceramic (a) (27 kJ mol /C0 1 ). A higher conductivity of 4.6 /C2 10 /C0 4 S cm /C0 1 was obtained at room temperature for the glass e

Fig. 3. Temperature dependence of conductivity for the Na3PS4 glass e ceramics (a) and (b) denoted in Fig. 2.

Table 1 Room temperature conductivities, activation energies for conduction and full width of half maximum (FWHM) of the strongest re /uniFB02 ection peak of cubic Na3PS4 for glass e ceramics prepared by different mechanical milling (MM) and heat-treatment (HT) conditions.

| Preparation condition           | s 25 /S cm /C0 1   |   E a /kJ mol /C0 1 |   FWHM/ /C14 |
|---------------------------------|--------------------|---------------------|--------------|
| MM: 20 h / HT: 270 /C14 C, 2 h  | 1.7 /C2 10 /C0 4   |                  27 |         0.4  |
| MM: 5 h / HT: 270 /C14 C, 2 h   | 3.2 /C2 10 /C0 4   |                  20 |         0.37 |
| MM: 1.5 h / HT: 270 /C14 C, 2 h | 4.6 /C2 10 /C0 4   |                  19 |         0.35 |
| MM: 1.5 h / HT: 270 /C14 C, 1 h | 4.6 /C2 10 /C0 4   |                  19 |         0.35 |
| MM: 1.5 h / HT: 220 /C14 C, 4 h | 3.3 /C2 10 /C0 4   |                  23 |         0.38 |

ceramic (b), and this value is twice as large as the conductivity of 2.0 /C2 10 /C0 4 S cm /C0 1 for the glass e ceramic (a). The glass e ceramics were also prepared by several different milling and heat-treatment conditions. Room temperature conductivity, activation energy for conduction, and FWHM for cubic Na3PS4 peaks are summarized in Table 1. FWHM is used as a measure of crystallinity for the glass e ceramics. The FWHM becomes larger with increasing milling periods of time, resulting in decreasing conductivity and increasing activation energy. A higher heat-treatment temperature 270 /C14 C is better for achieving higher conductivity because of higher crystallinity (smaller FWHM); heat treatment time (1 or 2 h) does not largely affect the conductivity and crystallinity. The highest conductivity of 4.6 /C2 10 /C0 4 S cm /C0 1 is obtained for the glass e ceramics prepared by milling for 1.5 h and consecutive heat treatment at 270 /C14 C for 1 or 2 h. The use of highly pure reagent Na2S increases the conductivity of Na3PS4 glass e ceramics. The conductivity of glass e ceramics is determined by the following two factors: one is crystallinity of cubic Na3PS4 and the other is glass composition partially remained in the glass e ceramics. The improvement of crystallinity of cubic Na3PS4 will increase conductivity of glass e ceramics. However, the FWHM of the XRD peaks for cubic Na3PS4 was larger in the glass e ceramic prepared from highly pure Na2S. The grain size of the Na3PS4 glass e ceramic is also important, and thus measured by SEM observation. Fig. 4 shows SEM image of the Na3PS4 glass e ceramic particles prepared by milling for 1.5 h and consecutive heat treatment at 270 /C14 C for 2 h. Partially aggregate particles with a few micrometer in size are observed. Morphology and size of the secondary particles were almost the same as those of the glass e ceramic particles prepared from the Na2S reagent (Sigma e Aldrich Co.). Diameter and dispersion of cubic Na3PS4 crystallite also affect the conductivity. Therefore, detailed structural analysis by high-resolution TEM observation is further needed for clarifying the effects of cubic Na3PS4 component on conductivity of glass e ceramic electrolytes. The glass component also affects the

Fig. 4. SEM image for particles of the Na3PS4 glass e ceramic (b) denoted in Fig. 2.

Fig. 5. Initial three charge e discharge curves (a) and cycling performance (b) of an allsolid-state Na15Sn4/cubic-Na3PS4 glass e ceramic/NaCrO2 cell. Solid and open marks in /uniFB01 gure (b) denote charge and discharge capacities, respectively.

conductivity. The sul /uniFB01 de glass with impurities such as Na2SO3 probably has a lower conductivity than the glass with less-impurity because the additional anion species act as a trap for Na þ cations, resulting in prevention of Na þ ion conduction.

The glass e ceramic electrolyte with a high conductivity of 4.6 /C2 10 /C0 4 S cm /C0 1 wasappliedto all-solid-state cells. Fig. 5 shows the initial three charge e discharge curves (a) and cycling performance (b) of an all-solid-state Na15Sn4/cubic-Na3PS4 glass e ceramic/NaCrO2 cell. The current density was 0.013 mA cm /C0 2 except for the 4th cycle (0.064 mA cm /C0 2 ) and 5th cycle (0.13 mA cm /C0 2 ). The cell with NaCrO2 operates as a sodium secondary battery at room temperature. The initial charge capacity is ca. 130mAhg /C0 1 , which is almost the same as that observed in an electrochemical cell with an organic liquid electrolyte [6]. A large irreversible capacity is observed at the initial cycle. The capacity gradually decreases with initial three cycles and then almost constant capacity of 60 mAh g /C0 1 is retained after the 7th cycle. Increase in current density decreases cell capacity at the 4th and 5th cycle. A potential reason for the initial irreversible capacity and capacity fading is the increase of cell resistance. In the all-solidstate lithium cell with LiCoO2 positive electrode and Li2S e P2S5 sul/uniFB01 de electrolyte, a large resistive layer was formed at the interface between the electrode and the electrolyte during the charging process. Surface modi /uniFB01 cation of LiCoO2 particles with oxide thin /uniFB01 lms such as LiNbO3 [27] or Li2SiO3 [28] decreased the interfacial resistance and improved the rate performance of all-solid-state lithium secondary batteries. Detailed structural analyses are important for clarifying stability of the glass e ceramic electrolyte under a high oxidative state in contact with the charged NaCrO2 active material. Surface coating of NaCrO2 with oxide thin /uniFB01 lms must be effective in developing cell performance andwill be examined in the near future.

## 4. Conclusions

Preparation procedure for glass e ceramic electrolytes with cubic Na3PS4 was examined. Cubic Na3PS4 was directly obtained via mechanical milling by using highly pure Na2S (99.1 wt%) reagent as a starting material, which is effective in reducing reaction time to produce glass e ceramics. The glass e ceramic electrolyte prepared by milling for 1.5 h and consecutive heat treatment at 270 /C14 C for 1 h showed the highest conductivity of 4.6 /C2 10 /C0 4 S cm /C0 1 . All-solidstate Na15Sn4/NaCrO2 cells with the glass e ceramic electrolyte operated at room temperature and retained about 60 mAh per gram of NaCrO2 for 15 cycles.

## Acknowledgments

This research was supported by JST, ' Advanced Low Carbon Technology Research and Development Program (ALCA) ' .

## References

- [1] K.B. Hueso, M. Armand, T. Rojo, Energy Environ. Sci. 6 (2013) 734 e 749.
- [2] H. Pan, Y.-S. Hu, L. Chen, Energy Environ. Sci. 6 (2013) 2338 e 2360.
- [3] M.S. Whittingham, Prog. Solid State Chem. 12 (1978) 41 e 99.
- [4] S. Komaba, W. Murata, T. Ishikawa, N. Yabuuchi, T. Ozeki, T. Nakayama, A. Ogata, K. Gotoh, K. Fujiwara, Adv. Funct. Mater. 21 (2011) 3859 e 3867.
- [5] R. Berthelot, D. Carlier, C. Delmas, Nat. Mater. 10 (2011) 74 e 80.
- [6] S. Komaba, C. Takei, T. Nakayama, A. Ogata, N. Yabuuchi, Electrochem. Commun. 12 (2010) 355 e 358.
- [7] C.-Y. Chen, K. Matsumoto, T. Nohira, R. Hagiwara, A. Fukunaga, S. Sakai, K. Nitta, S. Inazawa, J. Power Sources 237 (2013) 52 e 57.
- [8] J. Zhao, L. Zhao, N. Dimov, S. Okada, T. Nishida, J. Electrochem. Soc. 160 (2013) A3077 e A3081.
- [9] N. Yabuuchi, M. Kajiyama, J. Iwatate, H. Nishikawa, S. Hitomi, R. Okuyama, R. Usui, Y. Yamada, S. Komaba, Nat. Mater. 11 (2012) 512 e 517.
- [10] M. Nose, H. Nakayama, K. Nobuhara, H. Yamaguchi, S. Nakanishi, H. Iba, J. Power Sources 234 (2013) 175 e 179.
- [11] S. Komaba, Y. Matsuura, T. Ishikawa, N. Yabuuchi, W. Murata, S. Kuze, Electrochem. Commun. 21 (2012) 65 e 68.
- [12] T. Yamamoto, T. Nohira, R. Hagiwara, A. Fukunaga, S. Sakai, K. Nitta, S. Inazawa, J. Power Sources 237 (2013) 98 e 103.
- [13] P. Senguttuvan, G. Rousse, V. Seznec, J.M. Tarascon, M.R. Palacin, Chem. Mater. 23 (2011) 4109 e 4111.
- [14] J.-M. Tarascon, M. Armand, Nature 414 (2001) 359 e 367.
- [15] N. Kamaya, K. Homma, Y. Yamakawa, M. Hirayama, R. Kanno, M. Yonemura, T. Kamiyama, Y. Kato, S. Hama, K. Kawamoto, A. Mitsui, Nat. Mater. 10 (2011) 682 e 686.
- [16] K. Takada, Acta Mater. 61 (2013) 759 e 770.
- [17] M. Tatsumisago, M. Nagao, A. Hayashi, J. Asian Ceram. Soc. 1 (2013) 17 e 25.
- [18] A. Hooper, J. Phys. D Appl. Phys. 10 (1977) 1487.
- [19] H. Khireddine, P. Fabry, A. Caneiro, B. Bochu, Sens. Actuators B 40 (1997) 223.
- [20] W.G. Coors, J.H. Gordon, S.G. Menzer, US Patent US2010/0297537A1, 2010.
- [21] M. Ribes, B. Barrau, J.L. Souquet, J. Non-Cryst. Solids 38 &amp; 39 (1980) 271.
- [22] W. Yao, S.W. Martin, Solid State Ionics 178 (2008) 1777 e 1784.
- [23] M. Jansen, U. Henseler, J. Solid State Chem. 99 (1992) 110.
- [24] A. Hayashi, K. Noi, A. Sakuda, M. Tatsumisago, Nat. Commun. 3 (2012) 856.
- [25] A. Sakuda, A. Hayashi, M. Tatsumisago, Sci. Rep. 3 (2013) 2261.
- [26] A. Hayashi, T. Fukuda, S. Hama, H. Yamashita, H. Morimoto, T. M. Tatsumisago, J. Ceram. Soc. Jpn. 112 (2004) S695 e S699.
27. Minami,
- [27] N. Ohta, K. Takada, I. Sakaguchi, L. Zhang, R. Ma, K. Fukuda, M. Osada, T. Sasaki, Electrochem. Commun. 9 (2007) 1486 e 1490.
- [28] A. Sakuda, A. Hayashi, M. Tatsumisago, Chem. Mater. 22 (2010) 949 e 956.