GLYPH&lt;c=11,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=21,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=19,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=21,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=22,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=12,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;

Contents lists available at ScienceDirect

## European Journal of Mechanics / A Solids

journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/ejmsol

## Void growth in metal anodes in solid-state batteries: Recent progress and gaps in understanding

S.S. Shishvan a,b , N.A. Fleck a , R.M. McMeeking c , V.S. Deshpande a,*

- a Department of Engineering, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, CB2 1PZ, UK
- b Department of Structural Engineering, University of Tabriz, Tabriz, Iran
- c Department of Mechanical Engineering &amp; Materials Department, University of California, Santa Barbara, CA, 93106, USA

A R T I C L E  I N F O

Keywords: Solid-state battery Ceramic electrolyte Butler-Volmer kinetics Void growth

## 1. Introduction

Ceramic electrolytes show promise for widespread use in Lithium (Li) and Sodium (Na) ion batteries. Upon combining with Li or Na metal anodes they have the potential to deliver higher energy densities with enhanced safety compared to liquid electrolyte batteries (Takada, 2013; Wang et al., 2021). However, upon charging such cells at current densities greater than a critical value, fissures commonly termed as ' dendrites ' nucleate  and  grow  from  the  metal  electrode  and  result  in short-circuiting the cell. Dendrites can adopt a range of morphologies from planar filaments that involve fracture of the ceramic electrolyte to a 3D 'mossy ' form that is thought to originate from the filling of interconnected  porosity.  Several  aspects  of  this  failure  mechanism  are established through the recent work of Bruce and co-workers (Kasemchainan et al., 2019; Jolly et al., 2020), and Sakamoto and co-workers

* Corresponding author. E-mail address: vsd20@cam.ac.uk (V.S. Deshpande).

GLYPH&lt;c=19,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=28,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=28,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=26,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=16,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=26,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=24,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=22,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=27,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=18,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt; GLYPH&lt;c=21,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=19,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=21,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=22,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt; 7KH $XWKRUGLYPH&lt;c=11,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;VGLYPH&lt;c=12,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=17,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt; 3XEOLVKHG E\ (OVHYLHU 0DVVRQ 6$6GLYPH&lt;c=17,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt; 7KLV LV DQ RSHQ DFFHVV GLYPH&lt;c=11,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt; KWWSGLYPH&lt;c=29,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=18,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=18,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;FUHDWLYHFRPPRQVGLYPH&lt;c=17,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;RUJGLYPH&lt;c=18,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;OLFHQVHVGLYPH&lt;c=18,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;E\GLYPH&lt;c=16,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;QFGLYPH&lt;c=16,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;QGGLYPH&lt;c=18,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=23,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=17,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=19,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=18,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt; GLYPH&lt;c=12,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=17,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;

A B S T R A C T

Stripping of metal cations from the anode of a Li- or Na-ion cell into a ceramic electrolyte results in the formation of voids on the electrolyte/electrode interface. Such voids have been observed to grow to sizes in excess of 100 μm . Dendrites can nucleate and grow in the electrolyte from the vicinity of the voids during the plating phase of cycling of the cell, and lead to short-circuiting of the cell. Current theoretical understanding of the formation of these voids is in its infancy: the prevailing qualitative notion is that voids form within the metal anode when the stripping current density removes metal from the interface faster than it can be replenished. We review models that employ the Onsager formalism to develop a variational approach to model void growth by coupling powerlaw creep of the metal electrode and the flux of metal cations through a single-ion conductor solid electrolyte. These models, based on standard Butler-Volmer kinetics for the interfacial flux, predict that voids will shrink for realistic combinations of interfacial ionic resistance and electrolyte conductivity. Additional physics in the form of modified kinetics, such that the interfacial resistance is decreased by the presence of dislocations within the creeping metal electrode, are shown to give rise to initial growth of voids around impurity particles on the electrolyte/electrode interface. However, these voids ultimately collapse under the imposed stripping fluxes and no conditions have been identified for which isolated voids grow to more than 10 μm in size. This is in contrast to the experimentally observed sizes of ~ 100 μm . The physical processes by which large voids form remain unclear but the current state-of-the-art understanding does provide clues of possible mechanisms that have not as yet been considered.

(Schmidt  and  Sakamoto,  2016;  Kazyak  et  al.,  2020;  Chang  et  al., 2021).  These  include  the  fact  that  the  critical  current  required  to short-circuit  the  cell  increases  with  decreasing  interfacial  ionic  resistance to the flux of metal ions across the electrolyte/electrode interface (Sharafi et al., 2017a) and that, unlike dendrites in liquid electrolytes, cracks in solid electrolytes are only partially filled with metal (Hao et al., 2020; Ning et al., 2021).

Bruce and co-workers (Kasemchainan et al., 2019; Jolly et al., 2020) have suggested that there are two relevant critical current densities: the critical current on stripping (CCS) that results in void formation at the electrolyte/electrode interface, and the critical current on plating (CCP) at which dendrites grow into the ceramic electrolyte from the plating metal electrode. Typically, CCS is less than CCP and it has been shown both experimentally (Kasemchainan et al., 2019; Raj et al., 2022) and via recent theoretical predictions (Shishvan et al., 2020a, 2020b) that Li

GLYPH&lt;c=20,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=19,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=23,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=28,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=28,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=27,font=/HRHDJL+TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT&gt;

DUWLF

Fig. 1. (a) Cross-sectional SEM images of the LPS electrolyte/Li electrode interface during continuous Li stripping at a current density of 0 . 5 mA cm GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 2  showing void initiation and growth. Adapted from Lu et al. (2022). (b) X-ray tomography images of the Na/Naβ ′′ -alumina cell interfaces when pristine and after the 4th stripping and the 4th plating showing that voids only partially close on plating. Blue indicates voids in the Na metal anode (transparent) and orange indicates the solid electrolyte. The cell was cycled at a current density of 1 . 5 mA cm GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 2 . Adapted from Jolly et al. (2020). (For interpretation of the references to colour in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the Web version of this article.)

filaments preferentially grow from the vicinity of the voids at the electrolyte/electrode interfaces. Thus, an understanding of the mechanics of void growth at the electrolyte/electrode interface is essential to address the  dendrite  problem.  Void  growth  in Li  electrodes  has  been  experimentally observed at interfaces with both  LLZO  ( Li 7 La 3 Zr 2 O 12) (Krauskopf et al., 2019a; Wang et al., 2019) and Argyrodite ( Li 6 PS 5 Cl ) electrolytes (Kasemchainan et al., 2019; Lu et al., 2022); see Fig. 1a. Similarly,  interfacial  void  formation  has  been  reported  for  Na/Na-β ′′ -alumina/Na cells (Jolly et al., 2020); see Fig. 1b. For the Li/LLZO system,  void  growth,  or  rather  the  formation  of  instabilities  at  the interface, was observed at currents as low as 0 . 1 mA cm GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 2  when no stack pressure was applied (Krauskopf et al., 2019a). Application of a stack pressure increased the CCS for both the Li/Argyrodite (Kasemchainan et al., 2019) and Li/LLZO (Wang et al., 2019) systems. After cycling at 1.0 mA cm GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 2 to an areal capacity 1 mA h cm GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 2 , voids of size &gt; 100 μm typically form (Kasemchainan et al., 2019) though the size of these voids at initiation is typically less than 1 μm (Lu et al., 2022). Changing the composition of the Li electrode by alloying with 10 at.% Mg (Krauskopf et al., 2019b) has been suggested as a route to reduce the propensity for void formation.

Recent observations have shown that cell failure due to void formation is not only dependent upon the stripping current but also on the stripping time and electrode thickness (Lee et al., 2022). These observations suggest that the mechanics governing the formation and growth of  voids  in  the  metal  electrode  is  a  complex  combination  of  (i)  the electrochemical kinetics of the electrolyte/electrode interface and (ii) creep/plastic  deformation  and  vacancy  diffusion  within  the  metal electrode as well as along the surface/interface. While some simplistic models (Krauskopf et al., 2019a; Wang et al., 2019; Chen et al., 2020; Zhang et al., 2020; Yan et al., 2022; Lu et al., 2022) suggest that vacancy diffusion plays a dominant role, some other models (Shishvan et al., 2021;  Roy  et  al.,  2021;  Agier  et  al.,  2022)  suggest  an  alternative mechanism of void growth by flux focussing. Despite intensive research, a  fundamental  understanding  of  the  mechanism  of  void  growth  has remained elusive.

Fig.  2. (a)  Sketch  illustrating  the  mechanism  of  void  formation  at  the  electrolyte/electrode  interface  by  vacancy  generation  and  coalescence  during stripping of metal ions ( m + ). Vacancies are generated at the interface during stripping and their diffusion away from the interface is slower than the rate at which  metal  atoms  are  stripped.  (b)  Sketch  of  the  boundary  value  problem solved (see for example Yan et al., 2022) to model this mechanism. (c) The thinning of the electrode by drift or rigid body motion is illustrated here. The analysis shown in (b) neglects this drift by fixing the current collector end of the electrode.

The aim of this article is primarily to present a broad overview of the mechanisms  proposed  for  void  growth  in  metal  electrodes  during stripping and thereby demonstrate the gaps on our understanding. In Section  2,  we  first  provide  a  critical  overview  of  the  two  main  void growth mechanisms proposed in the literature and thereby argue that

Fig. 3. (a) Sketch illustrating the idea of flux focussing at the periphery of initial imperfections on the electrolyte/electrode interface. (b) Predictions of the flux focussing factor KJ around the periphery of the imperfection as a function of the normalised imperfection size a 0 ≡ a 0 / ( κ Z 0 ) using standard Butler-Volmer kinetics; adapted from Roy et al. (2021). The inset shows the problem analysed with a pre-existing void of diameter 2 a 0  at the interface. Flux focussing tends to sweep the Li metal over the void surface via diffusion/creep and grow the void while the drift of the electrode due to the stripping flux tends to close the void.

the  flux  focussing  mechanism  is  most  plausible.  However,  the  flux focussing models presented to-date neglect diffusion along the electrolyte/electrode  interface  and  we  therefore  extend  the  model  of  Agier et al. (2022) in Section 3 to account for this mechanism. Critically, we show that including interface diffusion is unlikely to change the flux focussing predictions presented to-date. Therefore, in Section 4 we focus on numerical results mainly from the existing literature to reveal the state-of-the-art. These predictions illustrate the limitations of the current models  to  explain  experimental  observations.  Finally  in  Section  5, possible directions of future investigations are outlined in order to close the gap between models and observations. While the formulation and qualitative results are applicable to both Na- and Li-ion cells, we shall give  results  only  for  Li-ion  cells  as  they  have  been  the  focus  of  the literature.

## 2. A critical review of two commonly proposed mechanisms of void growth

Two mechanisms have been most commonly proposed in the literature for void formation at the electrolyte/electrode interface:

- (i) Void formation and growth by vacancy generation and coalescence at the electrolyte/electrode interface (Fig. 2a).
- (ii) Void growth due to flux focussing at the periphery of initial imperfections on the electrolyte/electrode interface (Fig. 3a).

Both mechanisms are based on the notion that the metal is stripped from the electrode at the interface faster than it is replenished. We shall briefly discuss both mechanisms and their inherent shortcomings.

First, consider the mechanism of void formation via vacancy generation and coalescence. The basic idea is that as metal ions ( m + )  are stripped  from  the  electrode  at  the  interface,  vacancies  are  generated (Fig.  2a)  and  these  vacancies  then  diffuse  into  the  electrode  thereby replenishing  the  interface  with  metal  atoms.  If  the  stripping  fluxes exceed the rate at which the metal atoms can be replenished by vacancy diffusion, vacancies accumulate and coalesce at the interface resulting in void formation and growth (see Fig. 2a). Several calculations have been reported to quantify this assumed mechanism (Krauskopf et al., 2019a; Yan et al., 2022; Zhao et al., 2022; Lu et al., 2022). While there are a few differences  in  the  details  of  these  calculations,  the  boundary  value problem that is solved in all cases is essentially the same and is sketched in Fig. 2b. Importantly, a zero displacement or equivalently zero flux boundary  condition  is  imposed  on  the  current  collector  end  of  the electrode. As a consequence, the overall electrode volume remains unchanged and, as the metal is stripped from the electrode, the electrode becomes increasingly porous. In reality, stripping of the metal from the electrolyte/electrode interface results in drift or rigid body motion of the electrode (Fig. 2c) with the electrode losing metal (and volume). The convective  motion  of  lithium  in  the  electrode  compensates  for  the stripping at the interface and there is minimal or no vacancy generation or flux within the electrode due to the stripping current. Translation of the  electrode  is  also  consistent  with  the  observation  that  the  metal electrode thins upon stripping. Thus, void generation as predicted by these models is an artifact of the assumption of an unrealistic boundary condition. 1 This  is  also  clear  from  thermodynamic  perspective.  Vacancies  in  Li  have  a  large  enthalpy  of  formation  of  approximately 50 kJ mol GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 1 making  large  concentrations  of  vacancies  highly  unfavourable  (coalescence  of  vacancies  is  even  more  unfavourable  as  the enthalpies of di- and tri-vacancies are in excess of 100 kJ mol GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 1 ). While diffusion is slow and may not be able to annihilate vacancies formed by stripping, there is no such speed restriction on drift which acts to prevent the electrode from attaining a very highly unfavourable thermodynamic state.

A recent investigation by Lewis et al. (2023) has attempted to account for drift  of  the  electrode  using  a  phase-field  formulation.  This study predicts some void growth after stripping of nearly the full electrode  but  void  growth  in  the  majority  of  the  literature  occurs  much earlier; see for example Kasemchainan et al. (2019). While the reasons for this discrepancy are unclear, it could be due to two reasons: (i) in Lewis et al. (2023) the authors impose a spatially constant drift velocity at  the  current  collector  end  which  essentially  makes  the  numerical problem ill-posed and (ii) they use an unrealistic interface resistance of zero  but  employing  a  Dirichlet  boundary  condition  at  the  electrolyte/electrode interface. Nonetheless the study shows that the literature is recognising the need to account for the drift of the electrode.

Second, consider the alternative mechanism of void growth by flux

1 A  common,  everyday  example  to  illustrate  this  point  is  the  grating  of cheese. As the cheese is grated, fresh cheese arrives by translation of the residual block of cheese. The effect of grating does not make the cheese block porous.

Fig. 4. (a) Sketch of the axisymmetric problem with an isolated hemispherical void/impurity on the interface of the solid electrolyte/stripping electrode. An  external  power  source  maintains  an  electrical potential  difference  between  the  electrodes  of  the symmetric cell. (b) Zoom-in of the small region that is analysed and shown by the dashed rectangular box in (a). The ( r , z ) co-ordinate system is included with the electrolyte/electrode interface along z = 0. (c) Sketch to show the system V (dashed red line), and its upper and lower boundaries S m and S I , respectively. Deformation of the Li primarily occurs within a local volume as indicated by hatched marking. (d) The volume V Li that the Li occupies within V . The lower boundary of V Li is S b ≡ S e ∪ S v as depicted by the dashed black line. The pink region is the interface region V δ (with boundary S δ ) over which diffusion of Li occurs. (For interpretation of the references to colour in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the Web version of this article.)

focussing. There is a large literature (see Roy et al. (2021) and references therein) that assumes that focussing of the ionic flux occurs at the periphery of initial imperfections on the electrolyte/electrode interface, and the flux focussing drives void initiation and growth (Fig. 3a). The basic hypothesis is shown in the inset of Fig. 3b and is explained as follows. Loss of contact between the electrolyte and the electrode due to surface  roughness  (Fig.  3a)  and/or  imperfections  along  the  interface gives rise to regions over the electrolyte/electrode interface where flux of the metallic cations is blocked. These regions are idealised as circular disks  of  diameter  2 a 0 in  the  inset  of  Fig.  3b.  The  resulting  spatially inhomogeneous  electric  field  within  the  electrolyte  focuses  the  flux around the periphery of the imperfection. This flux focussing results in growth of the void due to the creep deformation of electrode. However, Roy et al. (2021) has addressed that this simple explanation, based on Butler-Volmer kinetics for the interfacial flux, has a flaw as summarised here.  The  ratio  of  maximum  interfacial  flux  at  the  periphery  of  the imperfection, max ( j ) , to the far-field interfacial flux j ∞ is defined as the flux  focussing  factor KJ .  Fig.  3b  replots  the  predictions  of  Roy  et  al. (2021) of KJ as a function of a 0 ≡ a 0 / ( κ Z 0 ) using the usual Butler-Volmer kinetics; here, Z 0  is the interfacial resistance and κ is the ionic conductivity of the electrolyte. We note that a material length scale is defined by the product κ Z 0  and this length scale for typical Li-ion cells is κ Z 0 ≈ 20 μm (using κ = 0 . 4 mS cm GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 1  and Z 0 = 5 Ω cm 2 as reported by Sharafi et al. (2017b)). The predictions of Roy et al. (2021) suggest that the flux focussing factor KJ is &lt; 3 for a 0 &lt; 10 (Fig. 3b) and consequently this analysis suggests that flux focussing is small for imperfections of size a 0 &lt; 200 μm . Roy et al. (2021) considered in detail the case of κ Z 0 = 20 μm , and predicted that no void growth will occur from imperfections less than 1 mm in size (and initial interfacial imperfections &gt; 1 mm are unrealistically large). 2 They comment that convection of the electrode

2 A corollary to this prediction is that atomic scale inhomogeneities caused by the formation of vacancies during stripping will also result in negligible flux focussing.

due to the stripping flux tends to shrink the voids and overpowers the effect  of  flux  focussing.  While  voids  do  grow  to &gt; 100 μm in  size (Kasemchainan  et  al.,  2019;  Lu  et  al.,  2022),  they  typically  have sub-micron sizes in the early stages of growth (Lu et al., 2022).

Shishvan et al. (2021) have argued that flux focussing must occur, and the insufficient flux focussing seen in Fig. 3b is because standard Butler-Volmer kinetics is inappropriate for an electrode that deforms by power-law  creep.  Recall  that  Butler-Volmer  kinetics,  as  employed  in most of the literature including the work of Roy et al. (2021), assumes that  the  electrode  is  not  deforming.  This  implies  spatially  uniform stripping/plating over the interface with the metal electrode maintaining  full  contact  with  a  rigid  ceramic  electrolyte.  But  void  growth  is accompanied by power-law creep deformation of the metal electrode and  associated  non-uniform  stripping  of  the  electrode.  Recall  that climb-mediated  glide  of  dislocations  is  the  mechanics  of  power-law creep  (Sargent  and  Ashby,  1984).  The  consequent  nucleation  and multiplication of dislocations that accompany power-law creep reduce the interfacial resistance which in turn enhances flux focussing (Shishvan  et al.,  2021).  Consequently,  void  growth  can  initiate  from sub-micron impurity particles. The work of Shishvan et al. (2021) has recently been extended to predict the growth of voids within Li metal electrodes (Agier et al., 2022).

## 3. Analysis of void growth in the metal electrode

We consider the axisymmetric problem shown in Fig. 4, with the interface between electrode and electrolyte defined as z = 0. Cations of Li + are stripped from the electrode by an ionic flux across the electrolyte/electrode interface. The presence of a void or impurity particle on the interface eliminates the flux over a small region on the interface. We envision that this inhomogeneity in interfacial flux results in the growth of a void in the Li electrode at the electrolyte/electrode interface. This problem has  recently  been  analysed  by  Agier  et  al.  (2022)  but  they neglected the effect of diffusion along the electrolyte/electrode interface that  is  often  cited  as  being  an  important  mechanism  to  drive  void

growth. Thus, here we extend the variational principle developed by Agier et al. (2022) to include the effect of interface diffusion on void growth by using the Onsager (1931a, b) formalism for non-equilibrium processes. We shall show that the usual form of linearized Butler-Volmer interfacial flux relation holds in the presence of a void growing within the creeping electrode with interface diffusion also present.

We model the initial interface heterogeneity as either a hemispherical void, or a small hemispherical impurity particle, of radius a 0  such that flux across the interface over a circular area of radius a 0 is prevented. While contact between the Li electrode and the rigid ceramic electrolyte is maintained, the growth of the void involves creep deformation of the Li electrode as well as diffusion of Li along the electrolyte/ electrode interface.

## 3.1. Variational principle for interfacial flux

Consider the symmetric cell as shown in Fig. 4a that comprises two Li electrodes and the electrolyte. We focus on the Li anode that is subjected to a stack pressure p 0  and is maintained at a uniform electric potential φ p .  We analyse a spatially fixed portion of the Li cell as sketched in Fig. 4b: within this portion is a spatially fixed volume V of the electrode (Fig. 4c). The volume V is assumed to be large and deformation of the Li primarily occurs within a local volume (indicated by hatched marking in Fig. 4c) at the location where void growth may occur near the electrolyte/electrode interface. A region V Li ≤ V is occupied by the Li in V with the remainder occupied by the impurity and/or void (Fig. 4d). We use the symbol S to denote the surface of V with S m denoting the top surface and S I denoting  the  bottom  surface  along  the  electrolyte/electrode surface at z = 0 GLYPH&lt;0&gt; (Fig. 4c). Note that the bottom surface of V does not coincide with the bottom surface of V Li denoted by S b (Fig.  4d).  We partition S b into two portions such that S b ≡ S e ∪ S v with S e being along z = 0 GLYPH&lt;0&gt; where the Li is in contact with the electrolyte (i.e., S e is common to S b and S I ) and S v is the impurity particle surface or void surface. (If the Li  is  in  contact  with the impurity, S v is  the  impurity particle surface while it is the traction-free void surface if the Li is detached from the impurity.) Note that while S e and S v are not spatially fixed boundaries during  the  void  growth,  the  top  and  lateral  boundaries  of V Li are spatially fixed. Thus, the region V Li (Fig. 4d) is a mixed Lagrangian/ Eulerian domain. Since the region V (Fig. 4c) is a spatially fixed region, it is  convenient  to  define V as  the  system  in  developing  a  variational principle and consider the rate of potential energy change and dissipation within this system.

The Onsager formalism requires that the kinetic path followed by the system  is  such  that  arbitrary  variations  in  rate  kinematic  degrees  of freedom give a rate of change of potential energy that is balanced by the variation  in the  dissipation  rate.  First  consider  the  rate  of  change  of potential energy ˙ Π within the system. While the stack pressure p 0 and Li flux on the top surface S m of V are spatially uniform and normal to the surface, the Li fluxes across the lateral boundaries of V vanish. With μ 0 denoting the reference chemical potential of Li, the chemical potential of the Li in V is μ Li = μ 0 + p ΩLi , where ΩLi is the molar volume of Li and the pressure p can vary spatially within V . Thus, μ Li = μ 0 + p 0 ΩLi represents the chemical potential of Li entering V via the top surface S m . The Li ions in  the  electrolyte  (with  the  reference  chemical  potential μ e 0 )  cause neither swelling nor shrinkage of the single ion conductor electrolyte and the concentration of Li + within the electrolyte balances the fixed and  uniform  distribution  of  anions  in  order  to  maintain  electroneutrality. Thus, along the portion S e of the bottom surface of V , the chemical potential of Li + exiting the system is μ e Li + = μ e 0 + F φ , where F is the Faraday constant and φ is the electric potential in the electrolyte evaluated at the interface. Assuming (i) isothermal conditions for the volume V and (ii)  an  equilibrium  vacancy  concentration,  the rate  of change of the Helmholtz free energy of V is ˙ A = ˙ N Li μ 0 , where the rate of change of Li molar content N Li in V is denoted by ˙ N Li . Write the chemical potential of the electrons within the electrode as μ el GLYPH&lt;0&gt; = GLYPH&lt;0&gt; F φ p . For an isothermal process, the second law of thermodynamics requires that the rate  of  change  of  potential  energy ˙ Π for  the  volume V satisfies  the inequality

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where f Li i is the molar flux of Li, j el GLYPH&lt;0&gt; i is the current density vector accounting for the flux of electrons across S m , j Li + i is the current density vector accounting for the Li + flux across S e (upon noting that the only flux  leaving V over S I is  across S e )  and ni denotes the  outward unit normal to the respective surfaces.

The volume V remains charge neutral so as conservation of charge requires

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

while conservation of Li demands

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Upon substituting for the chemical potentials, viz. μ e Li + = μ e 0 + F φ , μ el GLYPH&lt;0&gt; = GLYPH&lt;0&gt; F φ p and μ Li = μ 0 + p ΩLi ,  as  well  as  recalling  that p = p 0 is spatially uniform over S m , it follows from (3) that the rate of change of potential energy ˙ Π given by (1) can be rephrased as

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

With the open circuit potential given by U ≡ ( μ e 0 GLYPH&lt;0&gt; μ 0 ) / F ,  the  overpotential across the electrolyte/electrode interface is defined as η ≡ φ p GLYPH&lt;0&gt; ( φ + U ) . Now make use of (2) to give

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

The  decrease  in ˙ Π is  associated  with  the  following  dissipation mechanisms in V :  (i)  dissipation  by  creep  of  the  bulk  electrode;  (ii) dissipation by diffusion of Li along S b and (iii) dissipation associated with the flux of Li + across the electrolyte/electrode interface. Consider each of these dissipation mechanisms in turn. First, dissipation in the bulk of the Li electrode is due to incompressible creep flow of the Li, driven by the deviatoric stress s ij ≡ σ ij GLYPH&lt;0&gt; ( σ kk / 3 ) δ ij , where σ ij is stress and δ ij is  the  usual  Kronecker delta symbol. A dissipation potential Φm is introduced in terms of the incompressible creep strain rate ˙ ε C ij , such that

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

The dissipation rate per unit volume in the bulk electrode is directly related to Φm by ˙ d m = ( ∂Φm / ∂ ˙ ε C ij ) ˙ ε C ij . Note that Φm = 0 in the void and/ or impurity particle.

Second, consider surface/interfacial dissipation within a thin strip on the electrode side of the boundary S b ≡ S e ∪ S v .  The strip is an interphase rather than an interface and has a thickness δ of atomic dimension in which diffusional flow of Li plays a significant role. Denote the volume of this thin strip by V δ and its entire boundary by S δ (Fig. 4d) and note that V δ is bounded on one side by S b as already stated. The volumetric flux qi of Li in V δ is given by (Needleman and Rice, 1980)

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where m is the mobility of Li in V δ (note that m → 0 outside V δ ). Upon

writing  a  dissipation  potential  associated  with  this  linear  diffusion process as

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

the dissipation rate is given by ˙ d D = ( ∂ΦD / ∂ qi ) qi .

Third, following Shishvan et al. (2021), define an electrolyte/electrode  interface  dissipation  potential ΦI ≡ j 2 Z / 2  (where j = j Li + i ni and ni , the unit normal to S e , points into the electrolyte) in terms of the interfacial resistance Z which in general needs not be spatially uniform. The dissipation rate per unit area of the interface is then ˙ d I = j ( ∂ΦI / ∂ j ) .

To proceed with the variational principle, introduce the functional

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

with the kinematic solution satisfying δ Ψ = 0. Upon substituting for the various terms in (9), we write the variation of Ψ as

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where δ ˙ d m = sij δ ˙ ε C ij = σ ij δ ˙ ε C ij since ˙ ε C kk = 0. Note that Φm = 0 in the void and/or impurity particle and therefore we have replaced the integral over V by the integral over V Li .

The term associated with diffusional dissipation can be rephrased as

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where the volumetric strain rate ˙ ε D satisfies ˙ ε D = GLYPH&lt;0&gt; qi , i . The normal flux qini = 0 over all portions of S δ by the following arguments:

- (i)  Symmetry requires that qini = 0 along the left boundary of S δ .
- (ii)  Along the right boundary of S δ also qini vanishes since Li does not leave the domain along that boundary.
- (iii)  Over the top surface of S δ the diffusive flux normal to S δ vanishes since m = 0 in the bulk of V Li .
- (iv)  The flux again vanishes across the bottom surface S δ (i.e., S b ) as there is no diffusive flux neither across the void surface S v nor across the electrolyte/electrode interface S e .Thus,

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

and it follows that

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where the total strain rate is related to the material velocity of the Li in the electrode via ˙ ε ij = 0 . 5 ( vi , j + vj , i ) such that ˙ ε ij = ˙ ε C ij at a location xi in V Li ∈ ∕ V δ and ˙ ε ij = ˙ ε C ij + δ ij ˙ ε D / 3 for xi in V δ . Then, application of the stress equilibrium relation σ ij , j = 0 along with the divergence theorem implies

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Now recall that if the Li is detached from the impurity, the traction Ti vanishes  and  if  it  remains  in  contact  with  the  impurity  particle,  the normal velocity vi ni = 0. Moreover, we assume that over both the impurity particle and the electrolyte surface S e the Li is free to slip such that Ti t i = 0 with t i as a unit vector along the interface S e . Then (14) reduces to

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where Tn = Tini on S e and Ti = GLYPH&lt;0&gt; p 0 δ ij nj on S m while vn = vini .  Now substitute (15) into (10) and set δΨ = 0 to obtain

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where we have used the continuity relation vi = j Li + i ΩLi / F over S e and an equivalent result on S m along with the definition ΦI ≡ j 2 Z / 2. Then, upon noting that this relation holds for arbitrary variations δ j , it follows that

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

The usual form of the linearized Butler-Volmer relation (see e.g., Monroe  and  Newman,  2005;  Ahmad  and  Viswanathan,  2017;  Barai et al., 2018; Mistry and Mukherjee, 2020) is thus reproduced but here we have shown that it applies for an electrode wherein deformation occurs  by  creep  and  diffusional  flow  might  occur  along  the  electrolyte/electrode interface. We note in passing that the stress (or traction) term in (17) is significantly smaller that the overpotential η and plays a negligible  role  for  all  realistic  stripping  currents  as  quantified  by Shishvan et al. (2021).

In  the  above  treatment,  we  have  assumed  that  the  surface  and interface energies of the lithium are negligible and set them to zero. As a consequence, surface curvature plays no role in driving diffusion at the boundary of the Lithium. Additionally, diffusional flux along the electrolyte/electrode  interface  does  not  affect  the  Butler-Volmer  relation (17), and thus it is reasonable to assume that diffusional flux along the electrolyte/electrode interface will have a negligible influence on void growth. Roy et al. (2021) had reached a similar conclusion based on the argument that diffusional flow rates due to interface traction/pressure gradients are significantly slower than the fluxes due to the imposed electrical potential. Thus, in the remainder of this article we shall discuss numerical results where creep of the electrode is considered but diffusion along the electrolyte/electrode interface is neglected. Nevertheless, the formulation Eq. (1) to Eq. (17) has successfully incorporated surface and interface Li diffusion and is being exploited in current research to explore the effects of surface and interface Li diffusion.

## 3.2. Predictions of void growth during stripping

Agier et al. (2022) predicted void growth during stripping of Li from a Li electrode into a LLZO electrolyte. Here, we focus on summarising the key physical understanding from this study. All results are presented in  terms  of  an  imposed  nominal  cell  current j ∞ per  unit  electrolyte/electrode interface area. We shall first consider the case where the interface kinetics is described by standard Butler-Volmer kinetics with an interfacial resistance Z = Z 0 = 5 Ωcm 2 that is taken to be spatially uniform and not dependent on the deformation of the electrode. The electrolyte is assumed to be LLZO of ionic conductivity κ = 0 . 46 mS cm GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 1 ; see Agier et al. (2022) for further details of the calculations including all material parameters.

Envision  that  a  pre-existing  hemispherical  void  of  radius a 0 =

Fig. 5. Snapshots showing the temporal evolution of a  hemispherical  void  of  radius a 0 = 0 . 25 μm within the  electrode  on  the  electrolyte/electrode  interface. These  predictions with  a stripping current j ∞ = 0 . 5 mA cm GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 2 employ standard Butler-Volmer kinetics with  an  interfacial  resistance Z = Z 0 = 5 Ω cm 2 . Contours of the normalised flux j z / j ∞ in the electrolyte  and  the  von-Mises  stress σ / σ 0 in  the  Li  are included.  To  indicate  the  flow  of  the  Li  and  the associated  velocity  gradients,  we  superimpose  contour  surfaces ψ of  equally  spaced  Stokes  stream functions (with Δ ψ = 0 . 5).

0 . 25 μm resides within the Li electrode, with its diametral base plane on the electrolyte/electrode interface. Predictions of the temporal evolution of the void for an imposed stripping current j ∞ = 0 . 5 mA cm GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 2 are shown in Fig. 5 (where the time t = 0 corresponds to the instant that j ∞ is first imposed). In contrast to observations that stripping results in void growth (Kasemchainan et al., 2019; Lu et al., 2022), void shrinkage is predicted.  A  qualitative  explanation  for  the  mechanisms  of  void growth/shrinkage has already been given in Section 2 but we reiterate it here with further details. Stripping results in flux focussing on the periphery  of  the  initial  void  as  sketched  in  the  inset  of  Fig.  3b.  The enhanced  flux  at  the  void  periphery  (due  to  this  flux  focussing)  is thought to draw Li from the surface of the void thereby growing the void as sketched in the inset of Fig. 3b. However, what is commonly ignored is the fact that the overall imposed stripping flux results in the drift of the electrode towards the electrolyte (with the drift velocity of j ∞ΩLi / F ) and this tends to close the void (inset of Fig. 3b). Thus, void growth will only occur if the flux focussing is sufficiently high to overcome the effect of the overall stripping/drift current closing the void.

stripped over the electrolyte/electrode interface S e . (Note that the contours of j z in the electrolyte also shown in Fig. 5 confirm that there is no/ minimal flux focussing.) Thus, these coupled simulations clearly show that  the  flux  focussing  mechanism  based  on  standard  Butler-Volmer kinetics is insufficient to induce void growth, as previously suggested by the decoupled simulations of Roy et al. (2021).

## 4. Effect of creep deformation on interfacial resistance

The simulations presented in Fig. 5 include contours of normalised flux j z / j ∞ in the electrolyte (here j z is the flux in the electrolyte in the z GLYPH&lt;0&gt; direction) as well as contours of von Mises stress σ in the Li electrode normalised by the reference strength σ 0 = 1 MPa of the Li. The stress state  within  the  electrode  is  vanishingly  small  indicating  negligible straining  within  the  electrode  and  suggesting  that  the  electrode  is stripping via pure drift (that is, rigid body motion). To further illustrate this, contours of the Stokes stream function ψ within the Li electrode are included. These surfaces represent a constant difference in value of the stream function, i.e., Δ ψ ≡ Δ ψ F / ( j ∞ΩLi a 2 0 ) = 0 . 5 for this case, so that the volumetric flow rate of the Li between consecutive surfaces equals Q = 2 π Δ ψ = π a 2 0 j ∞ΩLi / F .  The contours are almost vertical. Recalling that the stream function contours are parallel to the material velocities, this further confirms that void shrinkage occurs with Li being uniformly

Butler-Volmer  kinetics  provides  a  relation  for  the  flux  across  the electrolyte/electrode interface as a function of voltage jump when the electrode  is  not  deforming.  This  assumption  is  valid  when  plating/ stripping of Li is spatially uniform over the interface. Void growth is associated  with  spatially  non-uniform  stripping  and  is  consequently accompanied by creep deformation of the electrode. In these circumstances, Shishvan et al. (2021) hypothesized that key assumptions in deriving  standard  Butler-Volmer  kinetics  are  violated  and  that  the interfacial resistance Z , instead of being constant, depends on the rate of deformation (creep) of the Li electrode. Here, we first summarize their hypothesis and then discuss the consequences. The presence of a finite stack pressure p 0 will contribute to void collapse and so in the following discussion and analysis we shall continue to consider the case where no stack  pressure  is  applied  as  we  are  primarily  concerned  with  understanding the growth of voids.

Creep deformation of the Li electrode under deviatoric stress is by the motion of dislocations with the dislocation density depending upon the level of deviatoric stress (Weertman, 1968; Sargent and Ashby, 1984). Shishvan et al. (2021) argued that dislocations influence interface kinetics in two ways:

- (i)  Dislocations cause a small expansion of the metal lattice and this in  turn  increases  the  effective  vacant  space  within  the  Li

Fig.  6. Schematics  from  Shishvan  et  al.  (2021)  to illustrate the effect of dislocations on the interfacial flux. (a) The enthalpy/standard chemical potential of the Li-ions increases with dislocation density in the electrode and (b) the energy landscape for an elementary Li-ion to transition from the electrode to the electrolyte. Curves are shown for the cases where the  electrode  is  dislocation-free  (solid  blue)  and where  dislocations  are  present  (dashed  red).  (For interpretation of the references to colour in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the Web version of this article.)

Fig. 7. (a) The spatial variation of the normalised flux j / j ∞ over the interface at time t = 0 + for the cases of hemispherical voids (three void radii a 0 are shown) and a hemispherical impurity of size a 0 = 0 . 25 μm at the interface. (b) The growth rate ˙ a of the void along the interface at time t = 0 + as a function of the radius a 0  of the hemispherical impurity. Results are shown for two choices of the stripping current j ∞ . Adapted from Agier et al. (2022) with predictions shown using the modified Butler-Volmer kinetics.

electrode.  The  effective  fraction, ̂ θ v ,  of  vacant  lattice  sites  is related to the density ρ d of dislocations of Burgers vector b via

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where h v is the enthalpy of vacancy formation in Li, R the gas constant, Ωv the molar volume of vacancies and α is a constant that  depends on the metal crystal structure. For example, α ≈ 0 . 25 for fcc Cu and ≈ 2 . 7 for bcc Fe (Seeger and Haasen, 1958). The two terms in (18) are the fraction of vacancies at a temperature T in the Li (first term) and the second term that models the extra space due to expansion of the lattice by dislocations.

## (ii)  The elastic distortion of the lattice due to the dislocations that enhances the enthalpy of the Li atoms.

The Butler-Volmer assumption that the barrier is set by the weighted mean of the standard chemical potentials of the two end-states requires that the enthalpy and entropy of the electrode are known. Shishvan et al. (2021) assumed that ̂ θ v is such that it minimizes the free-energy (i.e., an equilibrium assumption) and this enabled them to calculate the enthalpy and entropy of the electrode as a function of the dislocation density and thereby evaluate the interfacial barrier for Li ions to cross the electrolyte/electrode interface. This weighted barrier is shown schematically in Fig. 6 and illustrates that an increase in the standard chemical potential of the electrode Li ions due to the presence of dislocations reduces the barrier for the crossing of Li ions from the electrode to the electrolyte. We emphasize here that consistent with the conventional creep theory, the dislocation density does not change the free-energy and therefore the chemical potential of Li. Rather, the enthalpy (or standard chemical potential) increases, and this is balanced out by a corresponding increase in the configurational entropy to keep the chemical potential unchanged in the presence of the dislocations.

Shishvan et al. (2021) estimated the barrier illustrated in Fig. 6 and their analysis predicted that the interfacial resistance Z is related to the resistance Z 0  in the absence of dislocations via

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Here 0 ≤ β ≤ 1 is the Butler-Volmer symmetry factor which is typically

β = 0 . 5. Combining (18) and (19) it is clear that the interfacial resistance Z decreases with increasing dislocation density ρ d . Recalling that the dislocation density in a creeping metal such as Li scales with the applied stress σ as ρ d∝ ( 1 / b 2 )( σ / G Li ) , where G Li is the shear modulus of Li (Weertman, 1968), it follows that increasing the creep strain-rate (or equivalently increasing the stress) reduces the interfacial resistance in the vicinity of the imperfection. This thereby increases the flux focussing which in turn affects the creep of the electrode, resulting in a strong coupling between interface kinetics and creep deformation.

## 4.1. Flux focussing with modified Butler-Volmer kinetics

Predictions of the normalised interfacial flux j / j ∞ as a function of the non-dimensional position r / a 0 along the interface at time t = 0 + are included  in  Fig.  7a  for  three  choices  of  the  radius a 0 of  the  initial hemispherical  void.  Use  of  the  modified  Butler-Volmer  kinetics  also predicts only a small flux focussing at the periphery of the void ( r / a 0 = 1) with the flux dropping to its far-field value of j ∞ for r / a 0 &gt; 3. These predictions  are  independent  of j ∞ and,  for  realistic  initial  void  sizes ( a 0 ≤ 1 μm ), the voids again shrink. To understand why the modified Butler-Volmer kinetics does not change the results from Section 2.3, recall that stripping in the presence of a pre-existing void occurs by pure drift of the electrode without creep deformation. Therefore, there is no dislocation or stress generation within the Li electrode and Z ≈ Z 0, i.e., the modified Butler-Volmer kinetics reduces to standard Butler-Volmer kinetics  with  negligible  flux  focussing  and  the  shrink  of  voids  of  all realistic sizes.

When dislocations are present within the electrode, modified ButlerVolmer kinetics is expected to enhance flux focussing by reducing the interfacial  resistance  around  the  void/imperfection  on  the  interface. However,  generation  of  dislocations  requires  deformation,  i.e.,  a spatially  non-uniform velocity field. A spatially non-uniform velocity field is inevitable when an impurity particle is present on the interface as flux is prevented over a small patch of the interface and compatibility of deformation then means that Li flows over the impurity particle surface. This spatially inhomogeneous flow within the Li generates dislocations. We now proceed to consider the exemplar problem of a hemispherical solid  impurity  particle  of  radius a 0 on  the  interface,  with  modified Butler-Volmer kinetics.

The normalised flux j / j ∞ over the interface at the instant t = 0 + when the current is first imposed are included in Fig. 7a for j ∞ = 1 mA cm GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 2

Fig.  8. Predictions  of  the  growth  of  a  void  around  an a 0 = 0 . 25 μm impurity  particle  for  the  cases  of  stripping  currents  (a) j ∞ = 1 mA cm GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 2 and  (b) j ∞ = 0 . 4 mAcm GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 2 . The results are shown using modified Butler-Volmer kinetics along with spatial distributions of the von-Mises stress σ / σ 0  in the Li and the flux j z / j ∞ in the electrolyte. Contours of equally spaced Stokes stream functions (with Δ ψ = 10 for (a) and Δ ψ = 4 for (b)) are also included to indicate the flow of the Li and the associated velocity gradients. Adapted from Agier et al. (2022).

and 0 . 6 mA cm GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 2 and impurity of radius a 0 = 0 . 25 μm . These results are in stark contrast to those for the pre-existing void: a flux focussing factor KJ ≈ 8 . 5 is predicted for the impurity particle while KJ ≈ 1 for the same size of a pre-existing void. Now recall that the low values of KJ associated with a pre-existing void (Fig. 7a) result in void shrinking over the full range of realistic void initial sizes; see for example Fig. 5. On the other hand, we expect the high KJ value around the impurity particle will initiate void growth. This was demonstrated by Agier et al. (2022) who showed that the initiation of void growth occurs at the periphery of the impurity along the electrolyte/electrode interface (i.e., at ( r , z ) = ( a 0 , 0 ) ). Their predictions of the void growth rate ˙ a at t = 0 + along z = 0 are included in Fig. 7b as a function of the impurity radius a 0 for the two values of j ∞ . Note that a positive value of ˙ a implies the detachment of Li from  the  impurity  along  the  electrolyte/electrode  interface  with  the results in Fig. 7b indicating that voids initiate over the whole range of impurity particle sizes and current densities considered here. Moreover, the growth rate of ˙ a is sensitive to the value of KJ such that a higher KJ (at the higher value of j ∞ ; see Fig. 7a) results in a higher initial growth rate of a void.

## 4.2. Void growth around impurity particles

The calculations of Agier et al. (2022) demonstrated two distinct regimes of void growth around impurity particles that depend upon both the current and impurity particle size. We proceed to summarize these regimes by discussing results for a high and low stripping current j ∞ and an impurity of radius a 0 = 0 . 25 μm .

- (a) High stripping current. Predictions of the temporal evolution of a void  growing  around  the  impurity  with j ∞ = 1 mA cm GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 2 are shown in Fig. 8a, along with spatial distributions of the normalised von-Mises stress σ / σ 0 in the Li electrode and normalised flux j z / j ∞ in the electrolyte. Surfaces of the Stokes stream function ψ (spaced  at Δ ψ ≡ Δ ψ F / ( j ∞ΩLi a 2 0 ) = 10)  are  also  included  to illustrate the flow of Li within the electrode. The void growth is clearly divided into two phases. The void first grows along the electrolyte/electrode  interface  but  without  growing  in  height until t ≈ 400 s .  The  contours ψ curve  over  the  surface  of  this growing void consistent with the void growing in the r GLYPH&lt;0&gt; direction. This results in a pancake-like shaped void consistent with experimental observations (Kasemchainan et al., 2019; Lu et al., 2022).  Subsequently,  for t &gt; 400 s (and  after  the  void  has attained a radius a ≈ 4 μm along the electrolyte/electrode interface) the void begins to collapse such that its height and volume reduces but its radius a remains approximately constant (Fig. 8a). We can understand this by recalling that the high flux focussing on the periphery of the void (as evident in the contours of j z in Fig. 8a) causes the void to grow while simultaneously the overall stripping flux j ∞ (which induces a drift velocity of j ∞ΩLi / F within the electrode) tends to close the void. When the void is small with

Fig. 9. (a) Predictions of a max GLYPH&lt;0&gt; a 0  along the electrolyte/electrode interface as a function of j ∞ for a void growing around an impurity particle of radius a 0. Here a max is either the radius of the stable void or maximum radius of that the void attains before it collapses. The open and filled symbols indicate collapsing and stable voids, respectively. (b) A map using axes of a 0 and j ∞ summarises the two regimes, viz. void collapse and stable voids. The predictions are adapted from Agier et al. (2022) and use the modified Butler-Volmer kinetics.

respect to the impurity ( a / a 0 &lt; 16 in this case), the structural support of the impurity and the high flux focussing are together sufficient to cause the void to grow. However, for a / a 0 ≥ 16, the support provided by the impurity is insufficient and the creep of the Li results in it beginning to collapse.

- (b) Low stripping current. The temporal evolution of the Li around the impurity for the lower current of j ∞ = 0 . 4 mA cm GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 2 is illustrated in Fig. 8b in a manner analogous to Fig. 8a. A void again initiates from the surface of the impurity and grows along the interface resulting in a pancake-shaped void. However, the void now only attains a maximum radius a ≈ 1 . 5 μm and more intriguingly this void stabilises at the state shown at t = 1800 s in Fig. 8b and does not collapse. The smaller growth is because the lower current implies a lower KJ and this limits the extent of void growth. Now the ratio of the void size to impurity size is lower and this implies more mechanical support from the impurity. In fact, in this case the flux focussing that tends to grow the void and the drift velocity of j ∞ΩLi / F that tends to result in void collapse balance out. However, while voids in this case are stable, we emphasize they are much smaller than those observed in experiments (Kasemchainan et al., 2019; Lu et al., 2022).

We define a max as either the maximum radius of the stable void or the radius that the void attains before it begins to collapse. Predictions of a max GLYPH&lt;0&gt; a 0 along the electrolyte/electrode interface as a function of j ∞ are summarised in Fig. 9a for calculations over a range of j ∞ and a 0  values. In Fig. 9a, the stable void cases are marked with filled symbols while an open symbol indicates that the void collapses. Whether the void is stable or  collapses is dependent on both a 0  and j ∞ and the map in Fig. 9b summarises these regimes. Briefly, at low currents voids are stable but they collapse at higher currents with the current density at which the behaviour transitions between the two regimes increasing with increasing a 0.

## 5. Summary and need for further investigations

There now exists substantial experimental evidence that stripping of a metal anode in Li- or Na-ion cells with a ceramic electrolyte results in the  formation  of  voids  on  the  electrolyte/electrode  interface.  Two mechanisms have been proposed to explain this phenomenon:

- (i) Void formation and growth by vacancy generation and coalescence at the electrolyte/electrode interface.
- (ii) Void growth due to flux focussing at the periphery of initial imperfections on the electrolyte/electrode interface.

Both mechanisms are based on the idea that voids form because metal is stripped from the electrode at the interface faster than it is replenished. All models based on the notion that voids form due to vacancy generation and coalescence at the electrolyte/electrode interface have neglected the drift of the electrode that occurs during the stripping. This drift  is  directly  observed  in  the  form  of  thinning  of  the  electrode; thereby, metal that is stripped from the electrode is replaced without the need for vacancy generation. Once electrode drift is properly accounted for in the models, the vacancy generation and coalescence mechanism will predict no void growth and can be discounted. We have therefore focussed our review on the flux focussing mechanisms.

A  thermodynamically  consistent  numerical  framework  has  been presented to predict the  growth of voids  at  the  electrolyte/electrode interface via a flux focussing mechanism. The framework employs the Onsager formalism to couple power-law creep deformation of the Li electrode, diffusion at the electrolyte/electrode interface and flux of Li + through  a  single-ion  conductor  solid  electrolyte.  Flux  focussing,  as predicted by standard Butler-Volmer interface kinetics, is negligible for all realistic sizes of initial voids on the electrolyte/electrode interface and consequently the stripping flux shrinks pre-existing voids. This is contrary to experimental observations and suggests that it is necessary to revisit some of the key assumptions of the flux focussing mechanism. Some initial attempts in this direction are as follows.

Shishvan et al. (2021) have hypothesized that creep of the Li electrode associated with dislocation motion reduces the interfacial resistance and thereby enhances flux focussing. They developed a modified Butler-Volmer  kinetics  to  include  the  effect  of  dislocation  density within the electrode upon the interfacial resistance. However, stripping of an electrode with an initial void present on the electrolyte/electrode interface occurs with no deformation of the electrode. Since there is no creep within the electrode, the modified Butler-Volmer kinetics reduces to the standard case and the interfacial resistance is unaffected. Thus, again initial voids are predicted to shrink upon stripping of the electrode despite the assumption of modified Butler-Volmer kinetics. In contrast, an impurity on the electrolyte/electrode interface blocks interfacial Li flux  and  causes  creep  deformation  of  the  electrode.  In  this  case  the modified  Butler-Volmer  kinetics  predicts  a  significant  flux  focussing

Fig. 10. Sketches illustrating impurity particles dispersed in the Li electrode. These particles are deposited on the electrolyte/electrode interface as Li is stripped from the electrode. Agier et al. (2022) hypothesized that the coalescence of voids that form around these deposited impurity particles can result in the formation of large voids with the impurity particles providing the structural support to prevent their collapse.

around the periphery of the impurity particle due to the high dislocation density  associated  with  the  creep  of  Li.  This  flux  focussing  induces growth of a void around the impurity particle. However, for realistic impurity particles sizes (i.e., on the order of a micron or less) voids no greater than 10 μm in size are predicted to form. This is significantly smaller than the experimentally observed voids which are on the order of 100 μm .

The underlying physics that promotes void growth to large sizes (e. g., &gt; 100 μm )  remains  unclear.  The  model  predictions  discussed  in Section 4 fulfil continuum balance laws and thermodynamic considerations but neglect atomic scale phenomena such as formation of Debye layers at the electrolyte/electrode interface. These charged layers are typically no more than 1 nm in thickness and their effect is accounted for in continuum models by parameters such as the interface resistance. The growth of voids on the order of few microns is expected to be largely governed  by  continuum  balance  laws  and  hence  it  is  unlikely  that neglecting the effect of these atomic scale effects of charged layers is a serious  drawback  of  the  current  models  in  terms  of  predicting  void growth. Nevertheless, the recent calculations summarised here suggest possible mechanisms that have been neglected in models developed todate. In particular:

- (i)  The plastic/creep deformation of Li metal is size dependent with the  strength  of  Li  increasing  when  deformations  are  on  the micron length scale (Xu et al., 2017). The enhanced micron-scale strength of Li metal might be sufficient to prevent the structural collapse of voids on the 100 μm length scale. Calculations using creep plasticity models (Geers et al., 2014) that allow for such plasticity size effects are needed to test this hypothesis.
- (ii)  Another possibility is the three-dimensional (3D) dispersion of impurity  particles  that  are  present  inside  a  Li  electrode  and accumulate  on  the  two-dimensional  (2D)  planar  interface  as stripping  proceeds  (Fig.  10).  These  impurities  might  provide structural support for the growing voids as sketched in Fig. 10 and thereby allowing for large voids to form by coalescence. This hypothesis implies that the total amount of Li that is stripped from  the  electrode  governs  void  formation  in  addition  to  the stripping current. Agier et al. (2022) employed this hypothesis to suggest that the critical stripping capacity is given by 3

3 There is a typographical error in the Agier et al. (2022) with ΩLi missing in the denominator of this relation.

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where f is the volume fraction of spherical impurity particles of radius a 0 dispersed  within  the  stripping  electrode.  Recent experimental data (Lee et al., 2022) suggests that both stripping current and stripping time (or capacity) dictate failure by void formation at the electrolyte/electrode interface. While the critical capacity  (20)  predicted  by  Agier  et  al.  (2022)  is  qualitatively consistent with these recent experimental findings, the use of a max from  Fig.  9a  significantly  overpredicts C crit compared  to  the measurements. The combined effect of stack pressure, stripping capacity and current on the failure of solid-state Li-ion cells by void growth represents a rich area for future experimental and theoretical work.

## Credit author statement

Siamak S. Shishvan : Writing- Reviewing and Editing. Norman A. Fleck :  Writing-  Reviewing  and  Editing. Robert  M.  McMeeking : Writing-  Reviewing  and  Editing. Vikram  S.  Deshpande :  Writing -original draft.

## Declaration of competing interest

The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.

## Data availability

No data was used for the research described in the article.

## References

Ahmad, Z., Viswanathan, V., 2017. Stability of electrodeposition at solid-solid interfaces and implications for metal anodes. Phys. Rev. Lett. 119, 056003.

- Agier, J.A.B., Shishvan, S.S., Fleck, N.A., Deshpande, V.S., 2022. Void growth within Li electrodes in solid electrolyte cells. Acta Mater. 240, 118303.

Barai, P., Higa, K., Srinivasan, V., 2018. Impact of external pressure and electrolyte transport properties on lithium dendrite growth. J. Electrochem. Soc. 165, A2654 -A2666.

Chang, W., May, R., Wang, M., Thorsteinsson, G., Sakamoto, J., Marbella, L.,

Steingart, D., 2021. Evolving contact mechanics and microstructure formation dynamics of the lithium metal-Li7La3Zr2O12 interface. Nat. Commun. 12, 6369.

- Chen, Y., Wang, Z., Li, X., Yao, X., Wang, C., Li, Y., Xue, W., Yu, D., Kim, S.Y., Yang, F., Kushima, A., Zhang, G., Huang, H., Wu, N., Mai, Y.-W., Goodenough, J.B., Li, J.,

2020. Li metal deposition and stripping in a solid-state battery via Coble creep. Nature 578, 251 -255.
2. Geers, M.G.D., Cottura, M., Appolaire, B., Busso, E.P., Forest, S., Villani, A., 2014. Coupled glide-climb diffusion-enhanced crystal plasticity. J. Mech. Phys. Solid. 70, 136 -153.
3. Jolly, D.S., Ning, Z., Darnbrough, J.E., Kasemchainan, J., Hartley, G.O., Adamson, P., Armstrong, D.E., Marrow, J., Bruce, P.G., 2020. Sodium/Na β " alumina interface: effect of pressure on voids. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 12, 678 -685.
4. Kasemchainan, J., Zekoll, S., Jolly, D.S., Ning, Z., Hartley, G.O., Marrow, J., Bruce, P.G., 2019. Critical stripping current leads to dendrite formation on plating in lithium anode solid electrolyte cells. Nat. Mater. 18, 1105 -1111.
5. Krauskopf, T., Hartmann, H., Zeier, W.G., Janek, J., 2019a. Toward a fundamental understanding of the lithium metal anode in solid-state batteries - an electrochemomechanical study on the garnet-type solid electrolyte Li6.25Al0.25La3Zr2O12. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 11, 14463 -14477.
6. Krauskopf, T., Mogwitz, B., Rosenbach, C., Zeier, W.G., Janek, J., 2019b. Diffusion limitation of lithium metal and Li -Mg alloy anodes on LLZO type solid electrolytes as a function of temperature and pressure. Adv. Eng. Mater. 9, 1902568.
7. Lee, K., Kazyak, E., Wang, M.J., Dasgupta, N.P., Sakamoto, J., 2022. Analyzing void formation and rewetting of thin in situ-formed Li anodes on LLZO. Joule 6, 1 -19.
8. Lewis, J.A., Sandoval, S.E., Liu, Y., Nelson, D.L., Yoon, S.G., Wang, R., Zhao, Y., Tian, M., Shevchenko, P., Martinez-Paneda, E., McDowell, M.T., 2023. Accelerated short circuiting in anode-free solid-state batteries driven by local lithium depletion. Adv. Energy Mater., 2204186
9. Lu, Y., Zhao, C.-Z., Hu, J.-K., Sun, S., Yuan, H., Fu, Z.-H., Chen, X., Huang, J.-Q., Ouyang, M., Zhang, Q., 2022. The void formation behaviors in working solid-state Li metal batteries. Sci. Adv. 8, eadd0510.

Mistry, A., Mukherjee, P.P., 2020. Molar volume mismatch: a malefactor for irregular metallic electrodeposition with solid electrolytes. J. Electrochem. Soc. 167, 082510.

- Monroe, C., Newman, J., 2005. The impact of elastic deformation on deposition kinetics at lithium/Polymer Interfaces. J. Electrochem. Soc. 152, A396 -A404.
- Needleman, A., Rice, J.R., 1980. Plastic creep flow effects in the diffusive cavitation of grain boundaries. Acta Metall. 28, 1315 -1332.
- Ning, Z., Jolly, D.S., Li, G., De Meyere, R., Pu, S.D., Chen, Y., Kasemchainan, J., Ihli, J., Gong, C., Liu, B., Melvin, D.L.R., Bonnin, A., Magdysyuk, O., Adamson, P., Hartley, G.O., Monroe, C.W., Marrow, T.J., Bruce, P.G., 2021. Visualizing platinginduced cracking in lithium-anode solid-electrolyte cells. Nat. Mater. 20, 1121 -1129.
- Onsager, L., 1931a. Reciprocal relations in irreversible processes, I. Phys. Rev. 37, 405 -426.
- Onsager, L., 1931b. Reciprocal relations in irreversible processes, II. Phys. Rev. 38, 2265 -2279.
- Raj, V., Venturi, V., Kankanallu, V.R., Kuiri, B., Viswanathan, V., Aetukuri, N.P.B., 2022. Direct correlation between void formation and lithium dendrite growth in solid-state
- electrolytes with interlayers. Nat. Mater. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41563-02201264-8.
- Roy, U., Fleck, N.A., Deshpande, V.S., 2021. An assessment of a mechanism for void growth in Li anodes. Extreme Mech. Lett. 46, 101307.
- Sargent, P.M., Ashby, M.F., 1984. Deformation mechanism maps for alkali metals. Scripta Mettal 18, 145 -150.
- Schmidt, R.D., Sakamoto, J., 2016. In-situ, non-destructive acoustic characterization of solid-state electrolyte cells. J. Power Sources 324, 126 -133.
- Seeger, A., Haasen, P., 1958. Density changes of crystals containing dislocations. Phil. Mag. 3 (29), 470 -475.
- Sharafi, A., Kazyak, E., Davis, A.L., Yu, S., Thompson, T., Siegel, D.J., Dasgupta, N.P., Sakamoto, J., 2017a. Surface chemistry mechanism of ultra-low interfacial resistance in the solid-state electrolyte Li7La3Zr2O12. Chem. Mater. 29, 7961 -7968.
- Sharafi, A., Haslam, C.G., Kerns, R.D., Wolfenstine, J., Sakamoto, J., 2017b. Controlling and correlating the effect of grain size with the mechanical and electrochemical properties of Li7La3Zr2O12  solid-state electrolyte. J. Mater. Chem. 5, 21491.
- Shishvan, S.S., Fleck, N.A., McMeeking, R.M., Deshpande, V.S., 2020a. Dendrites as climbing dislocations in ceramic electrolytes: initiation of growth. J. Power Sources 456, 227989.
- Shishvan, S.S., Fleck, N.A., McMeeking, R.M., Deshpande, V.S., 2020b. Growth rate of lithium filaments in ceramic electrolytes. Acta Mater. 196, 444 -455.
- Shishvan, S.S., Fleck, N.A., Deshpande, V.S., 2021. The initiation of void growth during stripping of Li electrodes in solid electrolyte cells. J. Power Sources 488, 229437.
- Takada, K., 2013. Progress and prospective of solid-state lithium batteries. Acta Mater. 61, 759 -770.
- Wang, M.J., Choudhury, R., Sakamoto, J., 2019. Characterizing the Li-solid-electrolyte interface dynamics as a function of stack pressure and current density. Joule 3, 2165 -2178.
- Wang, M.J., Kazyak, E., Dasgupta, N.P., Sakamoto, J., 2021. Transitioning solid-state batteries from lab to market: linking electro-chemo-mechanics with practical considerations. Joule 16, 1371 -1390.
- Weertman, J., 1968. Dislocation climb theory of steady-state creep. Trans. Am. Soc. Met. 61, 681 -694.
- Xu, C., Ahmad, Z., Aryanfar, A., Viswanathan, V., Greer, J.R., 2017. Enhanced strength and temperature dependence of mechanical properties of Li at small scales and its implications for Li metal anodes. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 114, 57 -61.
- Yan, H., Tantratian, K., Ellwood, K., Harrison, E.T., Nichols, M., Cui, X., Chen, L., 2022. How does the creep stress regulate void formation at the lithium-solid electrolyte interface during stripping? Adv. Energy Mater. 12, 21022833.
- Zhang, X., Wang, Q.J., Harrison, K.L., Roberts, S.A., Harris, S.J., 2020. Pressure-driven interface evolution in solid- state lithium metal batteries. Cell Rep. Phys. Sci. 1, 100012.
- Zhao, Y., Wang, R., Martinez-Paneda, E., 2022. A phase field electro-chemo-mechanical formulation for predicting void evolution at the Li -electrolyte interface in all-solidstate batteries. J. Mech. Phys. Solid. 167, 104999.