Contents lists available at ScienceDirect

## Chemical Engineering Journal

journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/cej

## In situ construction of cubic 3D Li + channels enabling stable electrochemical topology in a Li-rich layered solid-state oxide-based lithium-ion battery

Deyuan Liu a , Jian Yang a , Zixuan Fang a , Tingting Feng a , Ziqiang Xu a , Xingjiang Liu b,* , Mengqiang Wu a,*

- a
- b

School of Materials and Energy, University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, 2006 Xiyuan Ave., West High-Tech Zone, Chengdu 611731, PR China Science and Technology on Power Sources Laboratory, Tianjin Institute of Power Sources, 1 Lingzhuangzi Road, Nankai District, Tianjin 300384, PR China

## A R T I C L E  I N F O

Keywords: Solid-state Li-ion batteries Li-rich Mn-based oxide Li + channel Electrochemical topology

## 1. Introduction

With the depletion of fossil fuels and the popularization of electric vehicles (EVs) [1,2], SSLIBs that provide both safety and capacity have attracted much attention [3,4]. SSLIBs constructed from high energy density cathode materials ( ≥ 800 Wh kg GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 1 ) and suitable SEs can broaden the application scenario and improve the cycling performance of SSLIBs [5 -8]. Conventional lithium cobalt oxide (LCO) and nickel-rich oxide (NCM) adapted to SSLIBs have been well studied. Still, their low voltage ranges ( ≤ 4.3 V) and energy densities (750 Wh kg GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 1 ) cannot match the increasing performance requirements of EVs [9,10].

LRMO layered materials have been widely studied for liquid-state electrolyte Li-ion batteries (LELIBs) due to their high initial discharge specific  capacities and wide operating voltage windows of 2.0 -4.8 V [11]. Since the transition metal (TM) dissolution in LEs during cycling [12 -15] and cathodic oxygen evolution [16 -18] at high voltage can be suppressed by matching with SEs [19,20], there should be ample opportunity for applying LRMOs in SSLIBs. Compared to other new type cathodes [21 -24], few related studies have been reported, possibly due

* Corresponding authors. E-mail addresses: xjliu@nklps.org (X. Liu), mwu@uestc.edu.cn (M. Wu).

## A B S T R A C T

Solid-state Li-ion batteries (SSLIBs) are expected to become the next-generation energy storage devices due to their high energy density and safe reliability. While the use of conventional cathodes in SSLIBs clearly cannot meet the increasing energy density demands of electric vehicles (EVs). A Li-rich Mn-based oxide (LRMO) has been extensively studied in liquid-state electrolytes (LEs) due to its higher capacity density ( ≥ 250 mAh g GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 1 ). However,  the  further  application  of  LRMO  in  SSLIBs  is  rarely  reported  due  to  its  extremely  low  electronic conductivity (10 GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 11  S cm GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 1 ) and gas evolution at high voltage ( ≥ 4.3 V). This work demonstrates a novel in situ synthetic  strategy  for  preparing  enhanced  cubic  3D  Li + channel  buffered  LRMO  cathodes  packaged  with Li6.75La3Zr1.75Nb0.25O12  (LLZNO) solid electrolyte (SE) for use in SSLIBs. The stable electrochemical topology contributes to good initial discharge capacities (IDC, 0.1 C, 183.1 mAh g GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 1 ) and stable cycling retention (0.1 C, 300 cycles, 73.4%) at room temperature (RT, 25 ◦ C). In situ tests analysis and first-principles calculations (DFT) results demonstrated the promising industrial prospects for using the LZM cathode in SSLIBs.

to the extremely low ionic conductivities (10 GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 11  S cm GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 1 ) of LRMOs and the high impedance at the cathode|SE interface severely limited activation of Li2MnO3  in SSLIBs [25 -27]. Due to the above reasons, the advantages of LRMO in LELIBs (anionic oxygen participates in redox reactions contributing to high capacity) still need to be fully reflected in SSLIBs.  Redesigning  the  LRMO  surface  and  LRMO|SE  interface  will contribute to further application in all-solid-state systems under high rate and high mass loading.

Cubic phase Li7La3Zr2O12  (LLZO) garnet is known for its high conductivity and good electrochemical stability toward Li + and is one of the most promising SEs for SSLIBs [28 -30]. However, the Li2CO3 insulation layer increases the resistance at the Cathode|LLZO interface [31]. The volume change of the electrode destroys the ion channel between the cathode and the SE and increases the interfacial resistance significantly [32,33]. Introducing metal cations into the lattice has been widely reported to provide stable doped cubic phase LLZXOs (X = Nb 5 + , Ta 5 + , and Bi 5 + , etc.) [34] that work stably at RT. These LLZXOs are among the most  promising  SEs  due  to  their  low  cost  and  favorable  mechanical properties for processing.

D. Liu et al.

The  Electrode|SE  interface  determines  the  ionic  conductivity;  the urgent task is to optimize the interface and improve the interface contact [35 -38]. The ion buffer layer can stabilize the Cathode|SE interface and inhibit the LLZXO oxygen decomposition [39 -43]. Constructing an ion buffer layer at the LRMO|LLZNO interface in SSLIBs would restrain the side reactions and lower the charge transfer impedance. This modification is significant for providing SSLIBs with high-voltage cathodes for cycles.

For the construction of a buffer layer, current reports include the use of a conductive material [44 -48], oxide-coated [49 -51], and fluoride of metal [52]. Among them, Li2ZrO3  (LZ) has been successfully used to improve the electrochemical performance of the cathode materials, such as LiCoO2, LiNi1/3Co1/3MN1/3O2, Li[Li1/6Mn1/2Co1/6Ni1/6]O2, and LiNiO2 in LELIBs. Compared to other doping cations, Mo 6 + has a larger ionic radius, which can effectively enlarge the Li + diffusion channel and accelerate its kinetic rate. Moreover, the high bond energy of Mo -O can reduce  oxygen  loss  during  the  electrochemical  process  [53].  Most importantly, introducing an appropriate amount of Mo into the LRMO bulk phase can promote the transformation of the layered structure with high  ion  conductivity  [54].  However,  there  are  no  reports  of  constructing an interfacial ion buffer layer on LRMO in SSLIBs by amorphous  Mo-rich  compounds,  and  further  improvements  still  require study.

This work constructs a tetragonal (tetra) LZ on the LRMO surface to

Fig. 1. (a) Synthetic strategy for preparation of the LZs and LZMs. SEM images of (b-c) LZ5 and (d-e) LZM2. FIB-HRTEM images of the (f) LRMO|LLZNO, (h) LZ5| LLZNO, and (i) LZM2|LLZNO interfaces. (g) HRTEM and SAED images of the LRMO region, (j-m, n-q) EDS mapping images of LZ5 and LZM2.

D. Liu et al.

achieve atomic level interfacial contact. Then, cubic 3D Li + channels are built  by  doping  Mo  into  the  LZ  buffer  layer  (LZM).  The  effects  of different Mo doping levels on the optimal amount of LZ buffer layer were investigated in SSLIBs. An internal mechanism for improving electrochemical performance was explored by advanced in situ characterization with differential electrochemical mass spectrometry (in situ DEMS) and X-ray diffraction (in situ XRD). The DFT calculations were used to explain and verify the intrinsic mechanism at the atomic level. The result illustrates that constructing an amorphous Mo-rich interface suppressed voltage attenuation and metal loss. Mo doping in the cathode bulk phase improved the stability of the electrochemical topology, which inhibited TM dissolution and the reaction between LLZNO and CO2 in the highvoltage region. The SSLIBs with LZM cathode can establish a high IDC of  183.1 mAh g GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 1 with 73.4% capacity retention after 300 cycles at 0.1C.  This  research  deepens  the  understanding  of  the  LRMO|LLZNO interface and provides a solution for its further application in SSLIBs.

## 2. Experimental

The Material syntheses, Material characterizations, Electrochemical measurements, and Density functional theory (DFT) calculations can be found in Supporting Information.

## 3. Results and discussion

Fig. 1a shows the synthetic route to LZs and LZMs that did not require a  gas  atmosphere.  The  combination  of  sol-gel  and  co-precipitation methods is also suitable for large-scale industrial production. Fig. 1b and d, and Fig. S1a (Supporting Information) show SEM images of LZ5, LZM2, and LRMO at a scale of 5 μ m. The secondary particle morphologies of LRMO, LZ5, and LZM2 were approximately 10 μ m in diameter, but the primary particle morphology was different. Compared with the uncoated  uniform  hexagonal  LRMO  primary  particles  with  a  size  of approximately  100  nm  (Fig.  S1b),  the  coated  LZ5  material  (Fig.  1c) exhibited  a  powdery  structure  with  diameters  of  about  20  nm.  The primary particles coated on the surfaces of the Mo-doped LZM2 material (Fig.  1e)  showed  cross-linked  sheet  structures  with  uniform  holes  of approximately 80 nm diameter. Compared with the LRMO, the LZs, and LZMs had finer primary particles, which laid the foundation for atomic level contacts at the Cathode|SE interfaces. To explore the contacts at the LRMO, LZ5, and LZM2 interfaces, a focused ion beam was directed at the Cathode|SE interface for sample thinning. FIB-HRTEM was used to observe the interface. Fig. 1f shows the LRMO|LLZNO interface contact situation. The crevice region between LRMO and LLZNO shows that the contact was not good. The LRMO region showed clear and bright layered (003) crystalline planes (Fig. 1g), indicating that the LRMO had good crystallinity  and  layer  structure.  Compared  with  LRMO,  there  was  a

Fig. 2. XRD patterns of (a-b) LZs and (d-e) LZMs. (c, f) XRD Rietveld refinement images of (a) and (d). (g) XPS full spectra of LRMO, LZ5, and LZM2. High-resolution (h) Mn 3d and (i) O 1 s XPS spectra for LRMO, LZ5, and LZM2. Enlarged (j) Zr 3d and (k) Mo 3d XPS spectra for LZs and LZMs.

D. Liu et al.

better buffer layer with a thickness of approximately 10 nm at the interfaces of the LZ5 and LZM2 cathodes (Fig. 1h and i), indicating that the cathode  material  had  good  atom-level  contact  with  the  SE  surface. Fig. S2, Fig. 1j -m, and n -q show SEM-EDS mapping images for LRMO, LZ5, and LZM2, respectively. The LZ buffer layer did not alter the uniform elemental distribution of the LRMO surface, and the LZM buffer layer showed uniform Mo distribution, indicating that Mo was uniformly doped into the LZM buffer layer.

XRD patterns for LZs and LZMs are shown in Fig. 2a and b and Fig. 2d and e. All samples showed the diffraction peaks of α -NaFeO2  layered structures with the R-3 m space group for LRMO. The strong diffraction intensities  indicated  that  the  materials  were  highly  crystalline.  The (108)/(110)  and  (006)/(102)  peaks  were  obviously  split,  which indicated that the prepared material had a well-layered structure. This result  is  consistent  with  the  HRTEM  images  of  the  LRMO  regions  in SSLIBs. Superlattice diffraction of the Li2MnO3  phase, which exhibited the  C2/m  space  group  and  had  low  symmetry,  generated  a  weak diffraction peak at 20-25 ◦ . In addition, no characteristic peak for LZ was found due to the relatively thin buffer layer, consistent with the HRTEM images. Moreover, compared with that for LRMO, the XRD patterns for LZs and LZMs did not change significantly, indicating that the introduction  of  the  buffer  layer  did  not  considerably  change  the  crystal structure of the LRMO. As seen from Fig. 2d and e, the characteristic peak for the cubic phase appeared after a small amount of Mo was doped into the composition, and the peaks for the cubic phase garnet plane (332)  and  (620)  appeared  near  32 ◦ and  44 ◦ ,  respectively.  With increased Mo doping, the characteristic peaks of the two cubic phases were gradually enhanced. Interestingly, LZM3 had obvious characteristic peaks for the cubic phase between 30 ◦ and 45 ◦ , but impurity peaks between 51 ◦ and 56 ◦ . Therefore, LZM2 had a better-layered structure. To  further  explore  the  effects  of  different  treatments  on  the  crystal structure  components of  the  materials,  the  XRD  data  were  subjected Rietveld refinement (Fig. 2c and f). The crystal structure parameters are shown in Table S3. The c/a values of all materials were approximately 5 and slightly increased with increases in the amount of LZ layer and Mo doping, indicating that the coating process, secondary heating, and Mo doping process enhanced the layered structures of materials. With the increased width of the LZ buffer layer, the proportion of the tetra phase (I41/amd) in the material structure gradually increased, and the ratio of the layered monoclinic phase (C2/m) in the material first decreased and then increased. With increasing amounts of Mo doping, the proportion of the cubic phase (Ia-3d) in the material increased and then dropped, while the ratio of the monoclinic phase showed the opposite trend. In addition, the extent of Ni 2 + /Li + mixing in the material decreased first and then increased with increasing tetra phase (or cubic phase), and the samples with the lowest mixing degree were LZ5 and LZM2. Both LZ5 and LZM2 showed lower proportions of monoclinic phase in their groups of samples and more tetra (or cubic) phase in the case of low Ni 2 + /Li + mixing. A lower proportion of Li2MnO3 and a higher cubic phase ratio is beneficial for reducing the Ni 2 + /Li + mixing in LRMO, which plays a crucial role in improving the ion transport and Li + conductivity of the material in SSLIBs. Excessive coating and Mo doping will lead to more severe Ni 2 + /Li + mixing in the material. The LZ5 and LZM2 had the most appropriate average cell volumes in their groups, which provided more Li + diffusion channels in the composite structures. XPS analyses further verified the presence of LZ and LZM layers on the LRMO surface. Fig. 2g shows  the  full  XPS  spectrum  of  the  LRMO,  LZ5,  and  LZM2  cathode materials,  in  which  Mn,  O,  Co,  Ni,  and  C  elements  were  detected. Compared with those of LZ5 and LRMO, the Mn 2p binding energies of LZM2 at 654 eV (Mn 2p1/2) and 642 eV (Mn 2p3/2) were slightly shifted toward higher energies (Fig. 2h), indicating that the Mn GLYPH&lt;0&gt; O bonds on the surface were slightly stronger due to Mo doping. The Ni 2p3/2 and Co 2p3/2  XPS spectra peaks at 853 and 778 eV, coinciding well with the energies expected for Ni 2 + and Co 3 + , respectively (Fig. S3a and b). After modification, the O 1 s XPS peak shifted slightly from 531.48 to 531.83 eV (Fig. 2i), associated with stronger TM GLYPH&lt;0&gt; O bonds. The increase in oxygen binding energy contributed to the stability of the structure. In the samples of LZM2, in addition to the typical XPS bands for LRMO, two characteristic regions ranging from approximately 175 to 190 eV and 230 to 235 eV were observed, which matched well with the Zr 3d and Mo 3d binding energies. Fig. 2j and k show the two regions ' enlarged XPS spectra and fitting curves. The two significant peaks at 181.3 and 183.6  eV  correspond  to  the  Zr  3d5/2 and  Zr  3d3/2  binding  energies, respectively. The two significant peaks at 231.4 and 232.3 eV correspond to the Mo 3d5/2 and Mo 3d3/2 states, respectively. The XPS results showed that the LRMO surface had LZ and LZM layers, consistent with the SEM-EDS mapping results.

As shown by the cyclic voltammograms in Fig. 3a and b, and Fig. S4, two oxidation  peaks  appeared  for  all  samples  in  the  first  cycle.  The oxidation peak at approximately 4.3 V corresponded to the oxidation of Ni 2 + /Ni 4 + and Co 3 + /Co 4 + , and the peak at about 4.5 V corresponded to the activation of Li2MnO3. With the release of Li2O, this peak gradually disappeared in subsequent cycles. This indicated that Li2MnO3 was fully activated. The reduction peak near 3.75 V corresponded to a reduction of  Ni 4 + /Ni 2 + and  Co 4 + /Co 3 + ,  while  the  reduction  peak  near  3.15  V corresponded to a reduction of Mn 4 + to Mn 3 + . The potential differences (Table S4) between LZs and LZMs are significantly lower than those of LRMO, indicating that the LZM buffer layer significantly reduced electrochemical  polarization,  and  improved  electrochemical  reversibility was consistent with its good cycling performance.

Fig. 3c and f show the rate performance curves of the LZs and LZMs. The discharge capacities of all samples decreased with increases in the current density due to the increased polarization inside the cell caused by increases in the current. The capacity of LRMO decayed substantially with rising discharge rates, and the discharge capacity was only 91.1 mAh g GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 1 at 0.5 C. This occurred because of the increased charge transfer impedance, which aggravated polarization between LRMO and LLZNO at a high discharge rate. However, the performance of LZs and LZMs was significantly improved at higher rates. The LZM2 sample with the best performance still had a specific capacity of 152.6 mAh g GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 1 at 0.5 C. All samples showed high capacities at 0.03 C, indicating that the material had good tolerance at a high rate. Therefore, a LZM buffer layer with an appropriate thickness can reduce interface polarization during cycling and effectively prevent the destruction of the layered structure at a high rate,  maintain  structural  stability,  and  thus  improve  the  rate  performance of the material.

Fig. 3d and e compare the charging and discharging curves for the LZs and LZMs in the first cycle at 0.1 C. The IDCs of LRMO, LZ5, and LZM2 at 0.1 C were 137.6, 158.7, and 182.8 mAh g GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 1 , respectively. The IDC and ICE of the LZM2 were improved, and the initial irreversible capacity loss was lower, but the IDC of the LZM3 in the same group was significantly reduced. This may be because a LZM buffer layer with an appropriate thickness and cubic-rich phase provided 3D Li + transport channels. The Mo-doping prevented TM ions from occupying the Li + vacancies, thus reducing initial irreversible capacity loss. However, the tetra phase in the LZM buffer layer did not show electrochemical activity, and its high content hindered charge transfer and Li + transfer, resulting  in  degradation  of  the  electrochemical  performance.  This conclusion was verified by the poor electrochemical performance of LZ7 and  LZM3  in  their  own  group.  The  overly  thick  coatings  may  have hindered Li + transfer and the activation of Li2MnO3, thus affecting the electrochemical performance and reducing the ICE. Our studies have shown that the approximately 4.5 V platform associated with oxygen redox is almost absent from the initial charge and discharge curves of LRMO  samples,  resulting  in  a  much  lower  discharge  capacity  than LELIBs.  However, the LZMs have a slanting line below 4.4 V, and a platform between 4.4 V and 4.6 V corresponding to cationic and oxygen redox, which is similar to the situation of LRMO in LELIBs, indicating LZM buffer layer improved the ionic conductivity of LRMO and reduced the  impedance  at  the  Cathode|SE  interface.  These  factors  together alleviate the severely limited activation process of Li2MnO3 in SSLIBs.

Fig. 3g and h, and Fig. S5 show the cycling performance results for

D. Liu et al.

Fig. 3. CV curves for (a) LZ5 and (b) LZM2. Rate performance curves of (c) LZs and (f) LZMs with current densities of 0.03, 0.05, 0.1, 0.3, and 0.5C. Initial charge and discharge curves of (d) LZs and (e) LZMs at a current density of 0.1C. Cycling performance curves for (g) LZs and (h) LZMs with a current density of 0.03C. (i) Nyquist plots for LRMO, LZ5, and LZM2 after 0, 150, and 300 cycles, respectively. (j) Trends for conductivity and phases of LZs and LZMs. (k) Comparison of electrochemical performance for cathodes in SSLIBs.

the LZs and LZMs. The capacity of LRMO decreased substantially with cycling, and the capacity retention after 100 cycles at 0.03 C was only 33.6%.  LZM2  showed  good  cyclic  performance  at  various  rates compared to the other samples, and the capacity retention after 100 cycles at 0.5 C was 83.9%. The LZM buffer layer with an appropriate thickness and cubic-rich phase provided atomic level contact between the Cathode|SE interface. At the same time, the uniform coating layer of the core-shell structure supported the grains during cycling. The structural stability of the material was ensured by preventing damage to the layered structure caused by Li + insertion/desertion during cycling.

Fig. 3i and Table S5 show the impedance values of LRMO, LZ5, and LZM2 before and after cycling, as well as fitted resistance data. LZM2 had the lowest impedance, approximately 57 Ω , due to the higher conductivity  of  the  LZM  buffer  layer.  The  low  impedance  is  the  crucial reason for the excellent cycling performance of LZM2. After 300 cycles, the  impedance  of  LRMO  increased  significantly  to  289 Ω ,  while  the impedance of LZM2 did not increase considerably in contrast to LRMO and LZ5. This is because the coating layer strengthened the structural stability  of  the  material  during  cycling,  which  is  consistent  with  the cycling performance described above.

For  cathode  side  in  SSLIBs,  the  main  factor  that  dominantly  influences the electronic and ionic conductivity is the components of the phases [25]. Fig. 3j shows the relationship between the components and conductivities in the LZs and LZMs. Upon thickening and increasing the Mo doping levels of the LZ and LZM buffer layers, the conductivities first increased and then decreased due to the excessive coating of LZ layer and  the  uneven  coating  of  large  grains  under  high  Mo 6 + content (Fig. S6). Therefore, the high proportion of tetragonal and cubic phase components improves ionic conductivity in SSLIBs. Fig. 3k shows an electrochemical  performance  comparison  of  SSLIBs  with  different cathodes. Due to the cubic-rich structure and atom-level contacts between  the  Cathode|SE  interface,  LRMO  showed  remarkable  electrochemical performance compared  with other cathodes in SSLIBs (Table S6).

In situ XRD analyses are performed on LZM2 to explore the structural changes  occurring  in  LZM2  during  the  initial  3  cycles.  As  shown  in

D. Liu et al.

Fig. 4. (a) In situ XRD contour map of LZM2 for the initial 3 cycles. (b) In situ DEMS curves of CO2 and O2 for LE|LRMO, SE|LRMO, LE|LZM2, and SE|LZM2. SEM images of (c-e) LLZNO paired with LRMO and LZM2 after 0, 100, 200, and 300 cycles. (f) The element loss ratio of cathode and SE paired with different cathodes after 300 cycles. (g) The cross-sectional EDS line scanning test of LZM2|LLZNO after 300 cycles. (h) The XPS full spectra of LLZNO paired with LZM2 before and after 300 cycles. (i) The high-resolution Mo XPS spectra of LLZNO paired with LZM2 after 300 cycles. (j) The HRTEM image, XRD, and SAED patterns of LZM2|LLZNO interface after high-energy electron beam thinning.

Fig.  4a,  the  main  peaks  of  the  initial  three  cycles  showed  regular changes, indicating that LZM2 has reversible anionic oxygen activity, which led to a highly stable electrochemical topology. This is due to the effective and stable atom-level contact between the LZM buffer layer and the SE interface during cycling. The c/a value is gradually shifted to a high end, which leads to wider (003) layer spacing and a better Li + channel.  Additionally,  constructing  cubic-rich  Li + channels  endowed LZM2 with good Li + transport performance. The doped-Mo 6 + induces more Li vacancies and reduces Li loss from the material during cycling. These results were consistent with the electrochemical properties and structural characterization of LZM2.

Gas production at high voltages in LELIBs has always been a focus of LRMO research. Fig. 4b compares the gas production levels of LRMO and

LZM2 in LELIBs and SSLIBs. Gas production in SSLIBs is significantly lower  than  that  in  LELIBs,  which  constitutes  an  advantage  of  the intrinsic properties of the solid interface. Due to the construction of the LZM buffer  layer,  the  gas  production  level  of  SSLIBs  is  significantly reduced.  This  is  due  to  the  shorter  TM-O  bonds  generated  by  Mo 6 + doping into the LRMO bulk phase, which reduced the irreversible losses of elements in the structure, consistent with the XPS characterization data.

In  addition  to  optimizing  the  cathode  side,  the  issues  of  SE  and interface  with  the  electrode  have  always  been  the  focus  of  SSLIBs; especially  the  cathode  material  is  a  Li-rich  material  for  high-voltage applications. The decomposition of the LLZNO electrolyte in the high voltage region under a CO2 atmosphere also deserves attention.

D. Liu et al.

Fig.  4c -e  shows  SEM  images  of  LLZNO  paired  with  LZM2  and LRMO, obtained after different cycles. The surface of LLZNO without a buffer layer continuously disintegrated during cycling; this resulted in cracks and failure to maintain interfacial contact at the atomic level, which  was  closely  related  to  the  continued  polarization  and  oxygen release of the LRMO in the high-voltage region. Interestingly, LLZNO pairing with the LZM2 buffer layer was gradually fused during cycling. The buffer layer and LLZNO belonged to the same oxide-based system, which led to good interface compatibility during cycling.

Fig. 4f shows that LZM2|LLZNO has a lower loss ratio of metal elements after 300 cycles. The EDS line scanning (Fig. 4g) confirms that the LZM2|LLZNO Mo-rich interface remains stable during the cycle without element diffusion. The XPS test (Fig. 4h and Fig. S7) for LLZNO before and after 300 cycles to further study the composition of the film formed on the surface of LLZNO in Fig. 4e, LLZNO paired with LZM2 has no serious valence state change and element loss before and after the cycle, but Mo was found after cycles. The Mo spectra (Fig. 4i) in different valence  states  indicate  that  mixed  molybdenum  compounds  growing between LZM2|LLZNO interface in the electrochemical process. Raman spectra of the LLZNO tablet surface (Fig. S8) further elucidated that the hybrid  molybdenum  compound  is  lithium  molybdate  in  various  Mo valence states. The diffraction peak at 32.6 ◦ in the XRD patterns (Fig. 4j) matched well with the crystal spacing of 0.27 nm in the HRTEM image; the lithium molybdate nanocrystals diffraction spots can hardly observe in  the  SAED  patterns,  indicating  that  the  Mo-rich  interface  is  highly amorphous. The Li2MoO4 and LiMoO2 generated in the electrochemical process  are  abundant  in  the  amorphous  Mo-rich  interface,  where Li2MoO4 is the matrix to provide a fast-ionic conductive interface, and LiMoO2  nanocrystals can provide reversible capacity for SSLIBs. This transition process promotes the rearrangement of the LZM buffer layer in LLZNO|LRMO interface resulting in adequate solid interface contact. The amorphous Mo-rich interface with various Mo valence states enhances LZM2|LLZNO in high-rate long-cycle performance and significantly suppresses voltage attenuation.

The  stability  in  the  long-term  cycling  performance  of  LZM2  and LRMO in SSLIBs under the high rate (Fig. S9a -d) supports the above view. Fig. S9e -h show the voltage decay of LE|LRMO, SE|LRMO, LE| LZM2, and SE|LZM2. The LZM buffer layer can significantly suppress the voltage attenuation of Li-rich materials in the long cycle at both low and high current densities, which shows the excellent prospect of industrial application.

The vacancy formation energy model and results calculated for the materials before and after Mo doping (Fig. 5a) showed that doping Mo 6 + into the materials effectively improved the vacancy formation energies of  Ni,  Co,  and  Mn  atoms,  resulting  in  a  more  stable  electrochemical topology. The vacancy formation energy of O was enhanced by 2.43 eV compared with that of the undoped LRMO, which was consistent with the in situ DEMS characterization results. The barriers to the migration of Li + in the LRMO, LZ, and LZM buffer layers (Fig. 5b) showed that the cubic-rich LZM buffer layer had excellent Li + transport channels. The

Fig. 5. (a) Atom vacancy energies and vacancy models for LZM and LRMO. (b) Li migration barriers and models for the LRMO, LZ, and LZM layers.

D. Liu et al.

LZM buffer layer had a lower Li + migration barrier than the LRMO and LZ buffer layers, confirmed by the EIS fitting results.

Fig.  6a  shows  a  simplified  scheme  for  assembling SSLIBs and the core-shell structure secondary particle model of LZMs. Given the problems of LRMO and SE interfaces (Fig. 6b and e), this work explored the construction of Li + channels in the tetra phase of the LZ buffer layer (Fig. 6c and f) at the Cathode|SE interface. A cubic-rich LZM buffer with beneficial 3D Li + channels was constructed by doping different amounts of  Mo  into  the  optimized  LZ5  (Fig.  6d  and  g).  The  buffer  layer  was constructed and optimized (Fig. 6h), which suggests further industrial application of the LRMO in SSLIBs.

## 4. Conclusions

An optimally screened LZM buffer layer with cubic 3D Li + channels was synthesized in situ on the surface of LRMO via a simple sol-gel method. The in situ DEMS and XRD characterization combined with DFT calculations were used to study the application of LRMO in SSLIBs. The SSLIBs with optimal LZM buffering shed light on the importance of stable LRMO electrochemical topology control and the 3D Li + channel construction  in  LRMO|LLZNO  interfaces.  A  high  discharge  capacity (183.1 mAh g GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 1 at 0.1 C), wide operating potential window (2.0 -4.8 V), and strong cycling performance (capacity retention of 73.4% after 300 cycles)  were  implemented  in  Li-rich  layered  oxide-based  SSLIBs  (Li| LLZNO|LRMO) for the first time. This work enriches the ideas for further application of LRMO in SSLIBs.

## CRediT authorship contribution statement

Deyuan  Liu: Conceptualization, Methodology, Data curation, Formal analysis, Investigation, Writing -original draft, Visualization. Jian  Yang: Writing -review &amp; editing. Zixuan  Fang: Resources, Investigation. Tingting  Feng: Resources,  Supervision. Ziqiang  Xu: Resources, Software, Validation. Xingjiang Liu: Resources, Supervision, Project  administration,  Funding  acquisition. Mengqiang  Wu: Resources, Supervision, Project administration, Funding acquisition.

## Declaration of Competing Interest

The authors declare that they have no known competing financial

Fig. 6. (a) Assembled structures of SSLIBs in this work. Crystal structures and Li + channel rings of the (b) LRMO, (c) LZ layer, and (d) LZM layer. (h) Schematic diagrams of Li + channel construction in SSLIBs with (e) LRMO, (f) LZs, and (g) LZMs.

D. Liu et al.

interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.

## Data availability

The authors do not have permission to share data.

## Acknowledgments

The  authors  greatly  acknowledge  the  financial  support  from  the National  Natural  Science  Foundation  of  China  (52102123),  the  Key Laboratory of National Defense Science and Technology (JCKY2022210C008),  the  Natural  Science  Foundation  of  Sichuan Province (2022NSFSC2008), and the Department of Science and Technology of Sichuan Province (2020ZHCG0035).

## Appendix A. Supplementary data

Supplementary data to this article can be found online at https://doi. org/10.1016/j.cej.2023.144404.

## References

- [1] M.A. Hannan, M.S.H. Lipu, A. Hussain, A. Mohamed, A review of lithium-ion battery state of charge estimation and management system in electric vehicle applications: Challenges and recommendations, Renewable Sustainable Energy Rev. 78 (2017) 834 -854, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2017.05.001.
- [2] J.M. Tarascon, M. Armand, Issues and challenges facing rechargeable lithium batteries, Nature 414 (2001) 359 -367, https://doi.org/10.1038/35104644.
- [3] Z.H. Gao, H.B. Sun, L. Fu, F.L. Ye, Y. Zhang, W. Luo, Y.H. Huang, Promises, challenges, and recent progress of inorganic solid-state electrolytes for all-solidstate lithium batteries, Adv. Mater. 30 (2018) 1705702, https://doi.org/10.1002/ adma.201705702.
- [4] G. Cui, Reasonable design of high-energy-density solid-state lithium-metal batteries, Matter 2 (2020) 805 -815, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matt.2020.02.003.
- [5] X. Ji, S. Hou, P.F. Wang, X. He, N. Piao, J. Chen, X.L. Fan, C.S. Wang, Solid-State Electrolyte Design for Lithium Dendrite Suppression, Adv. Mater. 32 (2020) 2002741, https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202002741.
- [6] X. Shen, H. Liu, X.B. Cheng, C. Yan, J.Q. Huang, Beyond lithium ion batteries: Higher energy density battery systems based on lithium metal anodes, Energy Storage Mater. 12 (2018) 161 -175, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ensm.2017.12.002.
- [7] Y.M. Huang, Y.H. Dong, S. Li, J. Lee, C. Wang, Z. Zhu, W.J. Xue, Y. Li, J. Li, Lithium manganese spinel cathodes for lithium-ion batteries, Adv. Energy Mater. 11 (2021) 2000997, https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202000997.
- [8] L.S. Li, H.H. Duan, J. Li, L. Zhang, Y.F. Deng, G.H. Chen, Toward high performance all-solid-state lithium batteries with high-voltage cathode materials: design strategies for solid electrolytes, cathode interfaces, and composite electrodes, Adv. Energy Mater. 11 (2021) 2003154, https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202003154.
- [9] F.D. Han, J. Yue, C. Chen, N. Zhao, X.L. Fan, Z.H. Ma, T. Gao, F. Wang, X.X. Guo, C. S. Wang, Interphase engineering enabled all-ceramic lithium battery, Joule 2 (2018) 497 -508, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joule.2018.02.007.
- [10] F. Wei, S. Wu, J. Zhang, H. Fan, L. Wang, V.-H. Lau, S. Hou, M. Zhang, J. Zhang, B. o. Liang, R. Zhao, Molecular reconfigurations enabling active liquid -solid interfaces for ultrafast Li diffusion kinetics in the 3D framework of a garnet solidstate electrolyte, J. Mater. Chem. A 9 (31) (2021) 17039 -17047.
- [11] C.S. Johnson, J.S. Kim, C. Lefief, N. Li, J.T. Vaughey, M.M. Thackeray, The significance of the Li2MnO3  component in 'composite ' xLi2MnO3 ⋅ (1 -x) LiMn0.5Ni0.5O2  electrodes, Electrochem. Commun. 6 (2004) 1085 -1091, https:// doi.org/10.1016/j.elecom.2004.08.002.
- [12] A. Boulineau, L. Simonin, J.F. Colin, C. Bourbon, S. Patoux, First evidence of manganese -nickel segregation and densification upon cycling in Li-rich layered oxides for lithium batteries, Nano Lett. 13 (2013) 3857 -3863, https://doi.org/ 10.1021/nl4019275.
- [13] P. Yan, A. Nie, J. Zheng, Y. Zhou, D. Lu, X. Zhang, R. Xu, I. Belharouak, X. Zu, J. Xiao, K. Amine, J. Liu, F. Gao, R. Shahbazian-Yassar, J.-G. Zhang, C.-M. Wang, Evolution of lattice structure and chemical composition of the surface reconstruction layer in Li1.2Ni0.2Mn0.6O2 cathode material for lithium ion batteries, Nano Lett. 15 (1) (2015) 514 -522.
- [14] E. Hu, X. Yu, R. Lin, X. Bi, J. Lu, S. Bak, K.-W. Nam, H.L. Xin, C. Jaye, D.A. Fischer, K. Amine, X.-Q. Yang, Evolution of redox couples in Li-and Mn-rich cathode materials and mitigation of voltage fade by reducing oxygen release, Nat. Energy 3 (8) (2018) 690 -698.
- [15] M. Gu, I. Belharouak, J. Zheng, H. Wu, J. Xiao, A. Genc, K. Amine, S. Thevuthasan, D.R. Baer, J.-G. Zhang, N.D. Browning, J. Liu, C. Wang, Formation of the spinel phase in the layered composite cathode used in Li-ion batteries, ACS Nano 7 (1) (2013) 760 -767.
- [16] R.A. House, G.J. Rees, M.A. P ´ erez-Osorio, J.J. Marie, E. Boivin, A.W. Robertson, A. Nag, M. Garcia-Fernandez, K.J. Zhou, P.G. Bruce, First-cycle voltage hysteresis
17. in Li-rich 3d cathodes associated with molecular O2  trapped in the bulk, Nat. Energy 5 (2020) 777 -785, https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-020-00697-2.
- [17] Z.H. Lu, J.R. Dahn, Understanding the anomalous capacity of Li/Li [Nix Li(1/3 GLYPH&lt;0&gt; 2x/3) Mn (2/3 GLYPH&lt;0&gt; x/3)] O2  cells using in situ X-ray diffraction and electrochemical studies, J. Electrochem. Soc. 149 (2002) A815, https://doi.org/10.1149/1.1480014.
- [18] A.R. Armstrong, M. Holzapfel, P. Nov ´ ak, C.S. Johnson, S.-H. Kang, M.M. Thackeray, P.G. Bruce, Demonstrating oxygen loss and associated structural reorganization in the lithium battery cathode Li [Ni0. 2Li0. 2Mn0. 6] O2, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 128 (2006) 8694-8698. doi: 10.1021/ja062027 + .
- [19] Y. Han, S.H. Jung, H. Kwak, S. Jun, H.H. Kwak, J.H. Lee, S.-T. Hong, Y.S. Jung, Single- or poly-crystalline Ni-rich layered cathode, sulfide or halide solid electrolyte: Which will be the winners for all-solid-state batteries? Adv. Energy Mater. 11 (21) (2021) 2100126.
- [20] H. Gao, S. Xin, L. Xue, J.B. Goodenough, Stabilizing a high energy-density rechargeable sodium battery with a solid electrolyte, Chem. 4 (2018) 833 -844, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chempr.2018.01.007.
- [21] R.M. Deng, B.Y. Ke, Y.H. Xie, S.L. Cheng, C.C. Zhang, H. Zhang, B.A. Lu, X. H. Wang, All-Solid-State Thin-Film Lithium-Sulfur Batteries, Nano-Micro Lett. 15 (2023) 73, https://doi.org/10.1007/s40820-023-01064-y.
- [22] J.Q. Cao, Y.H. Xie, Y. Yang, X.H. Wang, W.Y. Li, Q.L. Zhang, S. Ma, S.Y. Cheng, B. A. Lu, Achieving Uniform Li Plating/Stripping at Ultrahigh Currents and Capacities by Optimizing 3D Nucleation Sites and Li2Se-Enriched SEI, Adv. Sci. 9 (2022) 2104689, https://doi.org/10.1002/advs.202104689.
- [23] B. Ke, X. Wang, S. Cheng, W. Li, R. Deng, C. Zhang, J. Lin, Q. Xie, D.-L. Peng, Ultrahigh-power iron oxysulfide thin films for microbatteries 用于微电池的超高功 率密度铁氧硫化物薄膜 , Sci. China Mater. 66 (1) (2023) 118 -126.
- [24] Y.H. Xie, J. Ao, L. Zhang, Y.Q. Shao, H. Zhang, S.Y. Cheng, X.H. Wang, Multifunctional bilayer carbon structures with micrometer-level physical encapsulation as a flexible cathode host for high-performance lithium-sulfur batteries, Chem. Eng. J. 451 (2023), 139017, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2022.139017.
- [25] W.B. Du, Q.N. Shao, Y.Q. Wei, C.H. Yan, P.Y. Gao, Y. Lin, Y.Z. Jiang, Y.F. Liu, X. B. Xu, M.X. Gao, W.P. Sun, H.G. Pan, High-energy and long-cycling all-solid-state lithium-ion batteries with Li- and Mn-rich layered oxide cathodes and sulfide electrolytes, ACS Energy Lett. 7 (2022) 3006 -3014, https://doi.org/10.1021/ acsenergylett.2c01637.
- [26] C. Yu, H. Wang, X. Guan, J. Zheng, L. Li, Conductivity and electrochemical performance of cathode xLi2MnO3 ⋅ (1 -x)LiMn1/3Ni1/3Co1/3O2  (x = 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4) at different temperatures, J. Alloys Compd. 546 (2013) 239 -245, https://doi. org/10.1016/J.JALLCOM.2012.08.026.
- [27] B.W. Liu, N.F. Hu, C. Li, J. Ma, J.W. Zhang, Y. Yang, D.Y. Sun, B.X. Yin, G.L. Cui, Direct observation of Li-ion transport heterogeneity induced by nanoscale phase separation in Li-rich cathodes of solid-state batteries, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 61 (2022) e202209626.
- [28] N. Zhao, W. Khokhar, Z.J. Bi, C. Shi, X.X. Guo, L.Z. Fan, C.W. Nan, Solid garnet batteries, Joule 3 (2019) 1190 -1199, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. joule.2019.03.019.
- [29] C. Wang, K. Fu, S.P. Kammampata, D.W. McOwen, A.J. Samson, L. Zhang, G. T. Hitz, A.M. Nolan, E.D. Wachsman, Y. Mo, V. Thangadurai, L. Hu, Garnet-type solid-state electrolytes: materials, interfaces, and batteries, Chem. Rev. 120 (10) (2020) 4257 -4300.
- [30] S. Guo, Y. Sun, A. Cao, Garnet-type Solid-state Electrolyte Li7La3Zr2O12: Crystal Structure, Element Doping and Interface Strategies for Solid-state Lithium Batteries, Chem. Res. Chin. Univ. 36 (2020) 329 -342, https://doi.org/10.1007/ s40242-020-0116-0.
- [31] H.Y. Huo, Y. Chen, N. Zhao, X.T. Lin, J. Luo, X.F. Yang, Y. Liu, X.X. Guo, X.L. Sun, In-situ formed Li2CO3-free garnet/Li interface by rapid acid treatment for dendritefree solid-state batteries, Nano Energy 61 (2019) 119 -125, https://doi.org/ 10.1016/j.nanoen.2019.04.058.
- [32] A.M. Nolan, E.D. Wachsman, Y. Mo, Computation-guided discovery of coating materials to stabilize the interface between lithium garnet solid electrolyte and high-energy cathodes for all-solid-state lithium batteries, Energy Storage Mater. 41 (2021) 571 -580, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ensm.2021.06.027.
- [33] S. Mu, W.L. Huang, W.H. Sun, N. Zhao, M.Y. Jia, Z. Bi, X.X. Guo, Heterogeneous electrolyte membranes enabling double-side stable interfaces for solid lithium batteries, J. Energy Chem. 60 (2021) 162 -168, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. jechem.2020.12.026.
- [34] Y. Zhu, J.G. Connell, S. Tepavcevic, P. Zapol, R. Garcia-Mendez, N.J. Taylor, J. Sakamoto, B.J. Ingram, L.A. Curtiss, J.W. Freeland, D.D. Fong, N.M. Markovic, Dopant-dependent stability of garnet solid electrolyte interfaces with lithium metal, Adv. Energy Mater. 9 (12) (2019) 1803440.
- [35] Y.H. Liang, L.Z. Fan, Mechanical failures in solid-state lithium batteries and their solutions, Acta Physica Sinica 69 (2020) 17 -32, https://doi.org/10.7498/ aps.69.20200713.
- [36] G. Bucci, T. Swamy, Y.M. Chiang, W.C. Carter, Modeling of internal mechanical failure of all-solid-state batteries during electrochemical cycling, and implications for battery design 2017arXiv170300113B (2017). https://arxiv.org/abs/1 703.00113.
- [37] X.F. Yan, Z.B. Li, Z.Y. Wen, W.Q. Han, Li/Li7La3Zr2O12/LiFePO4  all-solid-state battery with ultrathin nanoscale solid electrolyte, J Phys. Chem. C 121 (2017) 1431 -1435, https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.6b10268.
- [38] S. Ohta, S. Komagata, J. Seki, T. Saeki, S. Morishita, T. Asaoka, All-solid-state lithium ion battery using garnet-type oxide and Li3BO3 solid electrolytes fabricated by screen-printing, J. Power Sources 238 (2013) 53 -56, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. jpowsour.2013.02.073.

D. Liu et al.

- [39] F.M. Du, N. Zhao, Y.Q. Li, C. Chen, Z.W. Liu, X.X. Guo, All solid state lithium batteries based on lamellar garnet-type ceramic electrolytes, J. Power Sources 300 (2015) 24 -28, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2015.09.061.
- [40] Z. Bi, N. Zhao, L. Ma, Z. Fu, F. Xu, C. Wang, X. Guo, Interface engineering on cathode side for solid garnet batteries, Chem. Eng. J. 387 (2020), 124089, https:// doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2020.124089.
- [41] J. Haruyama, K. Sodeyama, L. Han, K. Takada, Y. Tateyama, Space -charge layer effect at interface between oxide cathode and sulfide electrolyte in all-solid-state lithium-ion battery, Chem. Mater. 26 (2014) 4248 -4255, https://doi.org/10.1021/ cm5016959.
- [42] L. Wang, R. Xie, B. Chen, X. Yu, J. Ma, C. Li, Z. Hu, X. Sun, C. Xu, S. Dong, T.S. Chan, J. Luo, G. Cui, L. Chen, In-situ visualization of the space-charge-layer effect on interfacial lithium-ion transport in all-solid-state batteries, Nat. Commun. 11 (1) (2020), https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-020-19726-5.
- [43] N.J.J. de Klerk, M. Wagemaker, Space-charge layers in all-solid-state batteries; important or negligible? ACS Appl. Energy Mater. 1 (2018) 5609 -5618, https:// doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.8b01141.
- [44] S.X. Zhao, X.F. Fan, Y.F. Deng, C.W. Nan, Structure and electrochemical performance of single-crystal Li1.05  Ni0.1  Mn1.9  O3. 98  F0.02  coated by Li -La -Ti -O solid electrolyte, Electrochim. Acta 65 (2012) 7 -12, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. electacta.2011.12.091.
- [45] I. Kokal, M. Somer, P.H.L. Notten, H.T. Hintzen, Sol -gel synthesis and lithium ion conductivity of Li7La3Zr2O12  with garnet-related type structure, Solid State Ionics 185 (2011) 42 -46, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ssi.2011.01.002.
- [46] X.W. Miao, H. Ni, H. Zhang, C.G. Wang, J.H. Fang, G. Yang, Li2ZrO3-coated 0.4 Li2MnO3 ⋅ 0.6 LiNi1/3Co1/3Mn1/3O2 for high performance cathode material in lithium-ion battery, J. Power Sources 264 (2014) 147 -154, https://doi.org/ 10.1016/j.jpowsour.2014.04.068.
- [47] X.Y. Liu, Q. Su, C.C. Zhang, T. Huang, A.S. Yu, Enhanced electrochemical performance of Li1.2Mn0.54Ni0. 13Co0.13O2 cathode with an ionic conductive LiVO3
10. coating layer, ACS Sustainable, Chem. Eng. 4 (2016) 255 -263, https://doi.org/ 10.1021/acssuschemeng.5b01083.
- [48] Y.L. Xin, L. Qi, Y.W. Zhang, Z.C. Zuo, H.H. Zhou, X.X. Zhang, Organic solventassisted free-standing Li2  MnO3 ⋅ LiNi1/3  Co1/3  Mn1/3 O2 on 3D graphene as a high energy density cathode, Chem. Commun. 51 (2015) 16381 -16384, https://doi. org/10.1039/C5CC06798G.
- [49] S.K. Hu, G.H. Cheng, M.Y. Cheng, B.J. Hwang, R. Santhanam, Cycle life improvement of ZrO2-coated spherical LiNi1/3Co1/3Mn1/3O2 cathode material for lithium ion batteries, J. Power Sources 188 (2009) 564 -569, https://doi.org/ 10.1016/j.jpowsour.2008.11.113.
- [50] Y. Wu, A. Manthiram, High capacity, surface-modified layered Li[Li(1 -x) ∕ 3Mn (2 -x) ∕ 3Nix ∕ 3Cox ∕ 3]O2 cathodes with low irreversible capacity loss, Electrochem. Solid-State Lett. 9 (2006) A221 -A224, https://doi.org/10.1149/ 1.2180528.
- [51] J.Q. Zhao, S. Aziz, Y. Wang, Hierarchical functional layers on high-capacity lithium-excess cathodes for superior lithium ion batteries, J. Power Sources 247 (2014) 95 -104, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2013.08.071.
- [52] J.M. Zheng, M. Gu, J. Xiao, B.J. Polzin, P.F. Yan, X.L. Chen, C.M. Wang, J.G. Zhang, Functioning mechanism of AlF3 coating on the Li-and Mn-rich cathode materials, Chem. Mater. 26 (2014) 6320 -6327, https://doi.org/10.1021/cm502071h.
- [53] M. Sathiya, G. Rousse, K. Ramesha, C.P. Laisa, H. Vezin, M.T. Sougrati, M. L. Doublet, D. Foix, D. Gonbeau, W. Walker, A.S. Prakash, M.B. Hassine, L. Dupont, J.M. Tarascon, Reversible anionic redox chemistry in high-capacity layered-oxide electrodes, Nat. Mater. 12 (2013) 827 -835, https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat3699.
- [54] K.Q. Geng, M.Q. Yang, J.X. Meng, L.F. Zhou, Y.Q. Wang, S. Dmytro, Q. Zhang, S. W. Zhong, Q.X. Ma, Engineering layered/spinel heterostructure via molybdenum doping towards highly stable Li-rich cathodes, Tungsten 4 (2022) 323 -335, https://doi.org/10.1007/s42864-022-00173-2.