## A highly utilized and practical lithium-sulfur cathode enabled in allsolid-state batteries

Ashley Cronk 1 , Xiaowei Wang 2 †, Jin An Sam Oh 2 , So-Yeon Ham 1 , Shuang Bai 1 , Phillip Ridley 2 , Mehdi Chouchane 4 , Chen-Jui Huang 4 , Diyi Cheng 2 , Grayson Deysher 1 , Hedi Yang 4 , Baharak Sayahpour 1 , Marta Vicencio 2 , Choonghyeon Lee 3 , Dongchan Lee 3 , Min-Sang Song 3 , Jihyun Jang 2 ‡, Jeong Beom Lee 3* , and Ying Shirley Meng 2,4*

- 1  Materials Science and Engineering Program, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA, 92093, United States
- 2 Department  of  NanoEngineering,  University  of  California  San  Diego,  La  Jolla,  CA,  92093, United States
- 3  LG Energy Solution, Ltd., LG Science Park, Magokjungang 10-ro, Gangseo-gu, Seoul 07796, Korea
- 4 Pritzker  School  of  Molecular  Engineering,  The  University  of  Chicago,  Chicago,  IL,  60637, United States
- [†] Present address: Chemical Sciences and Engineering Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, Illinois, United States
- [‡] Present address: Department of Chemistry, Sogang University, 35Baekbeom-ro, Mapo-gu, Seoul 04107, Republic of South Korea
- *Corresponding authors. jaybilee@lgensol.com, shirleymeng@uchicago.edu

## Abstract

All-solid-state batteries (ASSB) using lithium-sulfur (Li-S) cathodes, present a low-cost energy storage  solution  that  can  achieve  energy  densities  exceeding  500  Wh  kg -1 .  However,  their development in ASSBs  has  been  hindered by poor kinetics, insulative interfaces, and (chemo)mechanical degradation, resulting in low utilization and cycle life. Here, we manipulate the  meta-stability  and  redox  activity  of  sulfide  solid  electrolytes  to  form  ionically  conductive interphases on the cathode surface using a simple and scalable synthesis approach. This creates a microstructure  that  enables  high  utilization  and  reversible  electrochemical  behavior  with  both sulfur  and  Li2S.  Bulk  and  morphological  characterization  with  X-ray  absorption  spectroscopy quantification  is  used  to  validate  reversibility.  Additionally,  optimizing  the  cathode/catholyte microstructure  by  tailoring  particle  size  to  the  micron-scale  enhances  rate  performance  for practical operation. The coupled (chemo)mechanical behavior of Li-S cathodes and sulfide solid electrolytes was found to alleviate internal stresses with cycling, especially when paired with high capacity anodes like silicon. As a result, this approach enables high loading sulfur cathodes up to 11  mAh  cm -2   with  stable  operation  at  room  temperature.  Several  high  energy  density  cell architectures are demonstrated, particularly a Li2S anode-free pouch cell at 4.5 mAh cm -2  that can operate under low stack pressures. This work establishes new design strategies for Li-S cathodes, providing a pathway to enable high energy density batteries for a wide range of future applications.

## Introduction

In  the  last  decade,  the  need  for  safe  and  cost-effective  energy  storage  systems  has  grown significantly. By 2030, the global demand for lithium-ion batteries is projected to double from 2.8 to 6 TWh 1 , exceeding the projected supply. Due to the increasing adoption of electric vehicles and electrified aviation, much of this demand is driven by the transportation sector. While lithium-ion batteries using insertion-type cathodes have made substantial progress in terms of cost and energy density,  these  cathodes  are  reaching  capacity  and  performance  limitations.  These  limitations necessitate the development of alternatives that are safer, lightweight, with lower cost to further advance electrification technologies. 2,3 All-solid-state batteries (ASSBs)  using conversion cathodes, such as  lithium-sulfur (Li-S), can overcome the shortcomings of current lithium-ion battery technology. Sulfur's high specific  capacity  (1675 mAh g -1 ) 4  and abundance 5  make it a promising alternative energy storage solution.   ASSB architecture also improves operational safety by using non-flammable solid-state electrolytes (SSE) and eliminates the polysulfide dissolution and  shuttling  effect,  arguably  the  major  challenge  hindering  the  commercialization  of  Li-S  in liquid electrolytes 6,7 .

With the elimination of polysulfide dissolution in ASSBs, the primary challenge has shifted to  addressing the insulating properties and slow kinetics of  Li-S cathodes, in addition to  their chemo-mechanical degradation from expansion and contraction 8 . The conversion from S8 to Li2S, results in an 79% volume change 9  - ten times greater than that of conventional cathodes. This significant volume change generates high internal pressure on the surrounding SSE matrix, leading to  void  formation  and  poor  interfacial  contact 10 .  Consequently,  most  solid-state  studies  have adapted  cathode  fabrication  methods  from  liquid  systems.  Typically,  active  materials  are incorporated within high surface area carbon hosts through ball-milling 11-14 , solution processes 1517 , or  vapor  deposition 18,19 as  a  means  to  increase  conductive  interfaces  and  constrain  volume changes. Nevertheless, these methods have resulted in inconsistent utilization and cycle life. Given the large amount of carbon typically used, inadequate ionic networks and insufficient contact to sustain conversion are likely responsible. Strategies like heat treatments 20  or creating 3D solidelectrolyte structures 21  demonstrated exciting proof-of-concepts to enhance interfacial contact, but their practicality remains uncertain. Incorporating catalysts has been found to improve conversion kinetics 22,23 , although using critical elements like cobalt compromises the low-cost novelty of the Li-S system. While some of these approaches have shown improvement compared to the liquid system,  high  areal  loadings  with  long  cycle  life  necessary  for  practicality,  have  yet  to  be demonstrated.

Li-S conversion requires 'triple-phase' contact between the active materials, ionic and electronic network. 8,24   This is easier to achieve in liquid systems, as liquid electrolyte can flow through electrode pores. In ASSBs, intimate solid-solid contact can be limited and dependent on cathode  architecture,  including  optimal  particle  sizes  and  their  distribution.  Ideally,  a  uniform distribution  of  active  materials,  SSE,  and  carbon  should  be  achieved.  Occasionally,  this  can promote decomposition or redox activity when using sulfide-based SSEs 16,25,26 , formally associated with  generating  irreversible  decomposition  products  at  high  voltages 27 ,  especially  with  high surface area carbon 28 . However, the lower operating voltage of sulfur is more compatible with the lower oxidation stability of sulfide-based electrolytes, where incomplete redox may be reversible. Therefore, leveraging the redox activity of sulfide SSEs could enhance the reaction kinetics of sulfur and Li2S. Additionally, facilitating reactions between the cathode materials and sulfide SSEs can result in beneficial interfacial properties 15,29 . To enable a practical high loading Li-S ASSBs,

new  design  strategies  are  required.  Further,  to  maintain  low-cost  and  make  Li-S  relevant  for industry, the cathode design should be scalable, without relying on additives beyond the active materials,  conductive  agent,  and  SSE.    This  requires  a  deeper  understanding  of  the  potential reactivity  between  SSEs  and  Li-S  cathodes,  and  how  their  coupled  redox  mechanisms  drive electrochemical performance and chemo-mechanical behavior.

Here,  we  aim  to  develop  a  Li-S  cathode  that  addresses  the  interfacial,  kinetic,  and (chemo)mechanical challenges when implemented in ASSBs, where cathode and cell level design strategies  were  implemented  to  improve  utilization  and  cycle  life  ( Fig.1 ).  A  single  step mechanochemical process enabled the formation of ionically conductive interphases by facilitating bonding between the SSE and sulfur particle  surface.  The  sulfur-SSE  interphase  and  uniform carbon network creates a microstructure with many 'triple-phase' sites for conversion. To improve cycle  life,  three  features  were  enabled.  First,  activation  of  the  sulfide  SSE  redox  activity  was accomplished using the single-step synthesis process and was confirmed to be reversible within the sulfur and Li2S voltage windows. Using X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS), we deconvolute these capacity contributions and validate electrochemical reversibility with both sulfur and Li2S. Second, tailoring cathode particle size to the micron scale created a cathode microstructure with reduced ionic tortuosity, enabling stable high rate cycling. Third, morphological analysis confirms that both sulfur and Li2S cathodes undergo significant volume change. However, these volume changes  were  found  to  alleviate  internal  pressures,  especially  when  paired  with  high-capacity anodes  like  silicon.  As  a  result,  unrivaled  room  temperature  performance  was  demonstrated, achieving 500 cycles with 85% retention. Further, high loading sulfur cathodes up to 11 mAh cm 2  delivered stable cycling for over 140 cycles. A 'proof of concept' Li2S anode-free pouch cell delivers a high reversible capacity of 900 mAh g -1  under practical operating conditions. This work contributes  new  insight  on  cathode  and  cell level  design  considerations,  supporting the development of practical and high energy dense ASSBs using Li-S conversion chemistry.

Fig.  1  |  High  energy  density  all-solid-state  battery  using  Li-S  conversion  cathodes. Key features required to enable high energy density ASSBs with Li-S conversion cathodes, improving both utilization and cycle life under practical operating conditions.

## Results and Discussion

Creating conductive interfaces. Cathode composite architecture including conductive interfaces are one of the critical components to enable high performing Li-S ASSBs. The potential reactivity between the active materials and the sulfide-SSE were investigated using a one-step mechanochemical milling procedure. To prove the effectiveness of this approach, two common fabrication methods were considered: hand-mixing and a multi-step milling process. Schematics illustrating each method and their expected distribution are shown in Fig. S1, where unmodified elemental sulfur, argyrodite Li6PS5Cl (LPSCl), and acetylene black (AB) carbon were used.

Fig. 2 | Characterizing the sulfur cathode composites after synthesis. a , Voltage profiles and ( b ) X-ray diffraction (XRD) spectra of the investigated cathode preparation methods. c ,  Raman spectroscopy and ( d ) X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) of the one-step milled composite. e , Schematic illustrating the surface reaction with LPSCl bonded on the sulfur surface as a result of the one-step milling procedure.

Increases  in  sulfur  utilization  and  discharge  capacity  are  attained  by  introducing  high energy milling steps to the fabrication process ( Fig. 2a) . This is likely from improved distribution and  more  contact  points  for  conversion.  The  multi-step  process  however  suffered  from  low utilization,  implying  insufficient  sulfur-SSE  contact.  It  was  also  irreversible,  marked  by  a  low conversion  efficiency  (CE)  of  17%.  Commonly  observed  in  prior  works 13,18,25,30,31 ,  a  low  CE suggests  insufficient  mass  transport  to  reconvert  Li2S  back  to  sulfur,  usually  requiring  high activation potentials to do so 32 . The low CE can also be from the isolation of cathode particles and active surface areas after volume expansion. A comparison between hand-mixing and ball-milling has been previously investigated by Ohno et al. , where ball-milling achieved higher capacities, resulting in a CE of 100%. 33   However, the single-step method used here delivered a discharge

capacity near the theoretical (1615 mAh g -1  at 25  C) and a CE of 128%, meaning this method also activated  LPSCl  redox  activity.  A  high  discharge  capacity  coupled  with  SSE  redox  activity, suggests that this fabrication strategy produced an architecture to facilitate improved ionic/electronic transport and sufficient 'triple phase' contact sites for Li-S conversion.

Figure  2b shows  the  diffraction  patterns  of  the  prepared  composites.  With  all  three methods,  LPSCl  and  sulfur  are  detectable  ( Fig.  2b ).  Only  the  one-step  method  facilitated amorphization of the composite. Since the diffuse scattering of AB carbon can mask diffraction peaks, the milling procedure was done without carbon (i.e., S/LPSCl) ( fig. S2a ), where the full width at half maximum (FWHM) still increased for both characteristic peaks of sulfur and LPSCl. Amorphization, evidenced by peak broadening, can be explained from the high energy milling process, which can induce disorder. 34  The amorphization of sulfur during the fabrication process is extremely advantageous since crystalline sulfur (cyclo-S8) requires large activation energies to break the covalent bonds between sulfur atoms 35 . Amorphous composites can lower the energy barrier for conversion and have been attributed to improved electrochemical performance 36,37 . To better understand the composite amorphization, thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) was used to quantify elemental sulfur ( fig. S3 ), which should fully sublime around 350  C 38 . However, 6.5 wt.% of  sulfur  is  unaccounted  for  after  sweeping  to  450  C,  indicating  alteration  of  the  S8  bonding environments and possible reaction with LPSCl. To investigate  this, Raman spectroscopy was conducted focusing on the S-S bonding region centered at 152 cm  -1 , which is a signature peak of E2 symmetrical bending 39 . In this region, a redshift is observed with the milled S/LPSCl and onestep milled composites ( Fig. 2c) . The addition of carbon further promotes this reaction. The S-S bending at lower wavelengths reveal the formation of lithium polysulfidophosphates (Li3PS4+n), where elemental sulfur bonds with the sulfur at the PS4 3-  terminals of LPSCl. 15,29  This observation is complimented by the reduction of the symmetric P-S stretching of the thiophosphate unit (PS4 3)  in  LPSCl at 425 cm -1 ( fig. S2b) , suggesting that the number of sulfur atoms bonded at each terminal  sulfur  atom  may  vary.  The  formation  of  these  intermediate  compounds  (Li3PS4+n) typically requires solvents to facilitate the reaction 15,29 . Here, we enable this interfacial reaction with a fully scalable single-step dry process. The  bonding between the thiophosphate units of LPSCl and sulfur ensures intimate contact of the sulfur/SSE interface and rationalizes the high sulfur utilization shown in Fig. 2a .

The  X-ray  absorption  near-edge  structure  (XANES)  region  is  useful  in  examining oxidation states and local bonding environments. Synchrotron radiation at the Sulfur K-edge was measured  for  the  sulfur  composite  and  reference  samples  ( Fig.  2d ).  Two  main  peaks  can  be observed for elemental sulfur at 2473.6 eV and LPSCl at 2472.4 eV. A 'pre-edge' feature at 2470.1 eV is also evident from 1 st  derivatives of the spectra. 'Pre-edge' features indicate a reduction of the sulfur oxidation state and have been observed for long chain polysulfides (Li2Sy) 40 . The 'preedge' observed here is likely from long chains of sulfur in Li3PS4+n. Ionic conductivity of the S/LPSCl composites  after  various  milling  durations  were  also  measured,  where  an  increase  is observed after 1 hour and saturates near 2×10 -5  S cm  -1  with continued milling ( fig. S2c ).  The increase in ionic conductivity confirms the formation of an ionically conductive phase using the mechanochemical process. However, particle morphology and chemical composition of this phase is  elusive  using  conventional  scanning  electron  microscopy (SEM). Therefore,  low-dose cryoTEM, high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) imaging, and elemental mapping was conducted on multiple particles ( fig. S4 and S5 ). Line scan results reveal the particle is sulfur with LPSCl on the surface ( table S1 ). These results corroborate

the interfacial reaction between sulfur and LPSCl, creating an ionically conductive phase on the sulfur particle surface. The tailored interface lowers the energy barrier for lithiation, facilitating fast lithium transport from the SSE matrix into the sulfur bulk as illustrated in Fig. 2e .

The interaction between LPSCl and Li2S was also investigated. A comparison between cathode preparation methods was conducted, where comparable trends seen with sulfur is observed with Li2S ( Fig. S6 ). Hand-mixing the composite fails to cycle, and the multi-step process delivers low utilization coupled with large polarization. The one-step method, however, delivers a high specific  capacity  of  723  mAh g -1 with  a  high  coulombic  efficiency  of  99.3%,  indicating  good reversibility.  With  the  Li2S  cathode,  the  synthesis  method  resulted  in  the  decomposition  and amorphization of LPSCl, evidenced by undetectable peaks in the diffraction pattern and a shift of P-S stretching in PS4 3from 425 cm  -1  to 418 cm  -1 , assigned to Li3PS4 (LPS) 41  ( fig. S7 ). These results suggest that Li2S reduced LPSCl to LPS. Despite this decomposition, the Li2S cell exhibits stable cycling, where additional plateaus present in the voltage profile after the 1 st cycle ( fig. S8 ) indicating that this approach also activated redox activity from the SSE decomposition products and is electrochemically reversible.

Evaluating  LPSCl  redox  activity  and  electrochemical  reversibility . The  redox  activity  of sulfide SSEs has been responsible for delivering capacity beyond the theoretical when paired with Li-S cathodes 15,16,19 and associated with irreversible electrochemical behavior 42 . Often overlooked in  literature,  deconvoluting  the  capacity  contribution  between  sulfur  and  SSE  is  essential  in accurately  quantifying  utilization  and  effectiveness  of  the  cathode  architecture.  To  isolate  this capacity contribution and study its potential reversibility, cells with just LPSCl and carbon were evaluated.

LPSCl,  like  many  sulfides,  exhibit  a  narrow  stability  window,  reducing  at  1.3  V  and oxidizing  at  2.3  V  vs.  Li/Li + 26,28 .  This  is  reinforced  by  constant  current  discharge  and  charge results, where the reduction and oxidation capacity of 115 mAh g -1  and 355 mAh g -1  was obtained ( Fig. 3a ).  These capacities obtained from LPSCl redox, explain the additional charge capacity observed  in  the  sulfur  cells,  which  is  also  recoverable  upon  subsequent  discharge.  Reversible behavior of LPSCl is also observed within the Li2S voltage window, delivering a high reversible capacity of 400 mAh g -1  ( Fig. 3b ). Assuming this behavior is consistent when paired with Li-S cathodes, expected redox products of the LPSCl electrolyte can be predicted. Complete oxidation of LPSCl forms sulfur, LiCl, and P2S5 with reduction products being Li2S, LiCl, and Li3P. 26,42  In both redox pathways, LPS is formed intermediately. From the experimentally obtained capacities, the expected reaction can be hypothesized where upon discharge and charge, a lithium rich Li4PS4 and lithium deficient Li2.5PS4 can be formed.

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

The electrochemical cycling results of LPSCl allow us to isolate sulfur utilization. In this system, stable sulfur utilization above 80% is achieved ( Fig. 3c ). This can be attributed to the enhanced

ionic transport and ionically conductive interfaces formed during synthesis. Additionally, between this cutoff voltage, cyclic voltammetry sweeps of both sulfur and LPSCl composites reveal their coupled reversible behavior ( Fig. 3d ). The upper voltage cutoff below 3.5 V limits the complete oxidation  of  LPSCl,  preserving  ionic  conductivity  with  continued  cycles.  The  high  oxidative tendency of LPSCl at 2.3 V vs. Li/Li +  can be effective at reducing the activation potential of Li2S. This was already observed with the Li2S cathode, where the activation voltage observed in this work is 2.4 V, without requiring the use of catalysts or kinetic promoters.

Fig. 3 | Evaluating LPSCl redox activity. Voltage profiles of LPSCl/C composites evaluated under ( a )  sulfur and ( b )  Li2S voltage limits. c ,  Specific capacity, and capacity contributions of sulfur and LPSCl. d , Cyclic voltammetry of S/LPSCl/C and LPSCl/C composites.

To  verify  the  reversibility  of  the  cathode  composites,  redox  products  during  the  1 st formation  cycle  were  investigated. In-situ electrochemical  impedance  spectroscopy  (EIS)  was performed on the sulfur cathode at each state of charge ( Fig.  4a ).  After  discharge,  impedance growth  attributed  to  the  charge  transfer  resistance  from  Li2S  formation  was  observed.  After charging, the charge transfer resistance reduces and returns near the pristine state, indicating good reversibility.  Post-mortem  analysis  was  conducted  to  confirm  Li2S  formation  and  conversion, where diffraction peaks attributed to nanocrystalline Li2S are detected in the XRD spectra after discharge ( Fig. 4b) , supporting the high utilization of sulfur. After charging, Li2S is undetectable, indicating its complete oxidation, while the formation of sulfur at 10.5  2  is observed. Given the high charge capacity, the low peak intensity and amorphous background suggest that the reformed sulfur is amorphous as in the pristine state. This also suggests the sulfur-SSE conductive interphase is preserved with cycling. TGA results at the discharged and charged states further reinforce high sulfur utilization and the reversibility of this system ( Fig. 4c ).

Fig. 4 | Probing electrochemical reversibility. a , Nyquist plots of in-situ EIS measurements of the sulfur cathode composite during the first formation cycle. b , XRD and ( c ) TGA of the sulfur composite  at  the  pristine,  discharged,  and  charged  states.  XANES  fitting  results,  representing weight  percentages  of  products  at  each  state  of  charge  for  ( d )  LPSCl  ( e )  sulfur,  and  ( f )  Li2S composites.

However, fully  deconvoluting  the  redox  products  between  LPSCl,  sulfur,  and  Li2S  are challenging. Therefore, XANES spectra at the Sulfur K-edge were measured for all the composites with  reference  spectra  reported  in Fig.  S9 .  Using  the  reference  spectra,  linear  combination  fit (LCF) analysis can be used to quantify species. 43,44  These fitting spectra are reported in Fig. S10 , Fig. S11, and Fig. S12 . As hypothesized from the electrochemical results for the LPSCl/C case, 39.9 wt.% of LPS is predicted after discharge, suggesting that half of the LPSCl formed the lithium rich L4.1PS4 phase. After charging, 9.7 wt.% is sulfur with some LPS reforming LPSCl ( Fig. 4d ). These results support the formation of LPS as a redox intermediate, where its reversible redox behavior likely improves the kinetics of Li2S oxidation. LCF results for the sulfur and Li2S system also support the reversible electrochemical behavior. For the XANES sulfur fitting results in Fig. 4e , 29 wt.% of Li2S is estimated after the initial discharge, indicating good conversion efficiency. After  charging,  Li2S  was  converted  back  to  sulfur.  The  additional  capacity  observed  in  the formation cycle can be attributed to LPS and a small amount of sulfur from LPSCl oxidation. These results coupled with EIS, XRD, and TGA support the high conversion efficiency attributed to the formation of the ionically conductive interphase layer and the redox activity of the LPSCl electrolyte.  Similar  conclusions  can  be  drawn  for  the  Li2S  system . Complimenting  findings revealed  by  XRD  and  Raman,  half  of  the  LPSCl  decomposes  to  LPS  after  synthesis  ( Fig.4f ). Nevertheless, the amorphous LPS/LPSCl mixture retains its ionic conductivity, supported by the Li2S electrochemical performance and XANES results. A complete summary of the fitting results can be found in table S2 .

Enhancing rate and cycling stability. The previous electrochemical performances were obtained using unmodified bulk sulfur and Li2S, where particle sizes were on the order of 100 microns for sulfur ( fig. S13a ) and 30 microns for Li2S ( fig. S14 ). These sizes, while sufficient for low cycling rates, need to be reduced to improve Li + transport and enable higher rate operation. Sulfur particle sizes  were  produced on  the  micron and sub-micron scale ( fig.  S13 ).  Given  the  many  possible compositions,  geometrical  modeling  was  conducted  to  aid  in  experimental  design,  connecting particle  size  and  composition  to  active  surface  areas  and  transport  properties.  Sulfur  cathode geometries were stochastically generated, with the  sulfur as spherical particles and the carbon additives as aggregates ( Fig. 5a ). To compare with experimental capabilities, particle size ranges for  bulk,  micron,  and  sub-micron  sulfur  was  25  to  50  µm,  0.5  to  5  µm,  and  0.25  to  0.5  µm, respectively. Figure 5b shows the evolution of the active surface area as a function of AM content. The reported values are the average over three repetitions. Intuitively, the sub-micron electrode exhibited the highest active surface area for all AM contents (%), followed by the micron sulfur, and  bulk  sulfur  electrode.  Therefore,  sub-micron  sulfur  particles  are  expected  to  achieve  the highest utilization due to more SSE contact. The tortuosity of the LPSCl phase was explored with the reported value being the average tortuosity in all directions. Surprisingly, the micron sulfur electrode exhibits the lowest ionic transport tortuosity, with all cases obtaining similar results until higher AM contents ( Fig. 5c ). The geometrical modeling results suggest that sub-micron particles may be the best choice to achieve high utilization, yet high active wt.% may be challenging to implement  since  the  ionic  transport  tortuosity  increases  drastically  after  50  wt.%.  Despite  the expected high utilization with sub-micron particles from higher surface areas, it must be noted that the geometrical modeling does not consider the (chemo)mechanical effects from lithiation.

To  validate  the  modeling  results,  room  temperature  electrochemical  performance  was conducted for each particle class in LiIn half cells. All particle sizes deliver comparable discharge capacities during the 1 st formation cycle at low rates (0.08 mA cm  -2 ) ( Fig. 5d ). The sub-micron sulfur cell delivers the highest discharge capacity of 1694 mAh g -1 , beyond the theoretical. This was  followed  by  micron  and  bulk  sulfur  which  delivered  1615  mAh  g -1 and  1500  mAh  g -1 , respectively. This suggests that more LPSCl redox activity can be activated with higher surface area particles. Higher charge capacities are also observed for all cells, reinforcing the additional capacity from the LPSCl electrolyte. The additional charge capacity results in a higher discharge capacity from the 2 nd  formation cycle with a reduction in cell polarization from 577 mV to 452 mV ( fig. S15a ). The reduced cell polarization could either be from LPSCl redox products or from potentially beneficial (chemo)mechanical behavior. Rate capability was also conducted up to 1C (1.6 mA cm  -2 ) ( fig. S15b) . The current density at 1C is beyond the critical current for the LiIn anode (~ 1 mA cm  -2 ) 45 , however, all three cells deliver reasonable utilization at all rates, with bulk sulfur  delivering  the  lowest  due  to  kinetic  limitations.  Since  LPSCl  was  found  to  contribute capacity,  the  specific  capacity  considering  both  sulfur  and  LPSCl  masses  show  reasonable utilization (700 mAh g -1 ) for both micron and sub-micron at these rates. This is critical for solidstate, as the catholyte is usually considered inactive, responsible for 'dead weight' within the cell. In this work, the catholyte contributes electrochemically to the overall cell capacity.

Fig. 5 | Modeling sulfur cathode microstructures with electrochemical validation. a , Geometrically modeled sulfur composite electrodes for bulk, micron, and sub-micron sulfur particles. b , Specific active surface area and ( c ) ionic transport tortuosity as a function of AM content (%) and particle size. d , First formation cycle voltage profiles of sulfur composites with bulk, micron, and sub-micron particles at C/20. e , Long-term cycling stability at C/2 with discharge capacity being normalized by the active mass (sulfur and LPSCl). f , Nyquist plots and equivalent circuit fitting results from EIS measurements of the micron (top) and sub-micron (bottom) cathodes at cycle 100, 300, and 500. g , Distribution of the von Mises stress on the SSE matrix after simulated lithiation. h , Predicted variation of maximum von Mises stress.

Longer term higher rate cycling was evaluated to investigate the particle size effect on cycle life  ( Fig.  5e ).  The  bulk  sulfur  composite  exhibits  fast  decay,  due  to  longer  Li + transport lengths  from  large  sulfur  particles  and  poor  contact  observed  after  densification  ( fig.  S13g) . Despite achieving the highest utilization, the sub-micron sulfur composite delivers 64% retention, with micron being the most stable system, achieving 85% retention after 500 cycles. The retention of the sub-micron cells is significant for Li-S in ASSB at room temperature. Nevertheless, a 20% increase in retention with micron scale particles is a large improvement. The capacity fade of submicron cells may be due to excessive decomposition from higher surface area between the carbon and SSE. To test this, cells were constructed with the micron sulfur composite using carbons that possess different specific surface areas and morphologies ( fig. S16 ), each chosen to intentionally

facilitate more SSE redox activity. Increasing the carbon surface area increased utilization, mainly from the SSE, but showed no impact on cycling stability. This means the decay observed with the sub-micron  sulfur  composite  is  likely  of  (chemo)mechanical  origin,  causing  degradation  at sulfur/SSE  particle  interfaces.  This  interfacial  degradation  should  result  in  impedance  growth, where EIS was measured after 100, 300, and 500 cycles ( Fig. 5f ).  The intermediate frequency range was assigned to the cathode electrolyte interphase (CEI). 46  The sub-micron sulfur cells do possess  higher  resistance  after  100  cycles,  attributed  to  more  mechanical  degradation  with continued  cycling.  However,  these  results  differ  slightly.  Cross-section  scanning electron microscopy  (SEM)  imaging  may  be  useful,  although  both  composites  were  found  to  show indistinguishable  morphology  ( fig.  S17 ).    Therefore,  mechanical-based  simulations  using  the generated electrodes in Fig. 5a may shed insight on the accumulated stresses at these interfaces.

Sulfur  cathodes  undergo  large  volume  expansion  upon  lithiation 47   resulting  in  internal stresses at their interfaces. To simulate this mechanism, volume changes were estimated based on % utilization for each particle size using 1 st  cycle discharge capacities based on sulfur mass and subtracting the expected capacity from LPSCl ( fig. S18 ). Simulations were conducted using finite element method (FEM) where the sulfur particles underwent the prescribed volume  expansion derived from the electrochemical results. Parameters and equations used in the simulations can be found in table S3 and S4 . Figure 5g displays the distribution of maximum von Mises stress on the SSE matrix, where for both micron and sub-micron cases, stresses beyond 5 GPa were predicted. A  bimodal  stress  distribution  shown  in Fig.  5h ,  highlights  most  of  the  SSE  matrix  does  not experience stress since only 30 wt.% of sulfur is used in the simulation. However, at the cathode interface, the sub-micron sulfur composite experiences a higher frequency of stress from  more volume expansion and increased tortuosity. Stress accumulated at the boundaries of the sulfur particles can propagate when these particles are in proximity, creating thinner SSE channels that experience much higher stress versus the bulk. If SSE fracture occurs, pore formation is possible after (de)lithiation. These simulations only capture stress after the 1 st   lithiation. However, SSE degradation  is  expected  to  accumulate  with  cycling,  disrupting  ion  conduction  pathways  and leading to more capacity fade as observed in Fig. 5e . Electrochemical evaluation, coupled with FEM  simulations  uncover  that  sub-micron  sulfur  particles  create  a  microstructure  with  high electrode  tortuosity,  resulting  in  higher  interfacial  stresses  and  faster  capacity  decay.  Previous studies have required nano-scale particles to achieve reasonable utilization 48-50 . However, in this work, micron-scale particles can deliver both high active surface area and low electrode tortuosity, balancing both high utilization and stable cycling, critical for practical Li-S cathodes.

Morphological evolution of Li-S cathodes . In ASSBs, Li-S cathodes are expected to experience (chemo)mechanical degradation from their large volume changes. This will result in stresses on various interfaces as simulated above. Electrochemical performances of sulfur, Li2S, and LPSCl were found to be highly reversible, but this impact on cathode morphology remains unknown. To visualize this, cross-sectional SEM images were prepared for both micron sulfur and Li2S cells at each state of charge. Both pristine sulfur and Li2S cathodes exhibit a dense composite structure, possessing a thickness of 26 µm and 45 µm, respectively, and good interfacial contact ( Fig. 6a and 6b ). Calculations were done to estimate the volume change (%) as a function of sulfur cathode wt.% assuming complete lithiation ( fig. S19 ). Here, 25.8 vol.% change is expected, resulting in a thickness increase to 32.7 µm, close to the observed result. The lithiation capacity of this cell was 1.22 mAh. Therefore, the thickness increase of the cathode equates to 4.9 µm mAh -1 , which is the expected  thickness  growth  of  Li  metal  with  cycling 51 .  This  suggests  that  lithiating  the  sulfur

cathode can compensate the volume reduction of stripping Li metal. After completing the 1 st  cycle, the sulfur cathode thickness was retained but can be resolved by an increase in porosity. These results reveal that during lithiation, the resulting stress on the SSE matrix causes it to plastically deform to accommodate particle expansion. The deformed structure preserves intimate contact to the  separator  layer  and  assists  structurally  during  cycling.  These  findings  can  also  explain  the reduction in polarization after the 1 st  cycle, where subsequent volume expansion is likely supported by the pre-deformed SSE structure. The plastic deformation of the SSE matrix is not surprising, as the simulated stresses estimated above is near the shear modulus of LPSCl 52 .

Fig. 6 | Quantifying cathode and cell level volume changes. Cryo-FIB images of the ( a ) micron sulfur and ( b ) Li2S cathode composite at various states of charge. c , Operando pressure monitoring of LCO and Sulfur using a lithiated silicon anode and of ( d ) LCO and Li2S using a µSi anode during the first formation cycle.

The Li2S cathode is expected to shrink after (de)lithiation. Shown in Figure 6b , the Li2S cathode thickness decreases drastically (~ 40%), where columnar cracking is observed in the crosssection as well as on the surface ( fig. S20 ). This cracking is likely strain induced from lithium removal. This morphological phenomenon has been observed in ASSBs using silicon anodes  53 and  these  results  suggest  that  this  (chemo)mechanical  behavior  is  ubiquitous  in  composite

conversion electrodes when constrained to 2D interfaces. After completing one cycle, the cathode morphology is however, reversible, returning close to the pristine state and is a similar thickness as the electrochemically formed Li2S in Fig. 6a .  These results provide two key insights. First, conversion cathodes can alleviate anode volume changes. Second, Li2S cathodes inherently face more mechanical challenges compared to sulfur due to strain induced cracking after (de)lithiation.

To demonstrate the pressure alleviation proof of concept, operando pressure monitoring was conducted comparing LiCoO2 (LCO), sulfur, and Li2S when paired with µSi and lithiated Si anodes. LCO will expand due to Jahn-Teller distortions 54 , although volume expansion is 10 times less than Li-S cathodes. Si is expected to undergo large volume expansion upon lithiation but will be lower than expected due to the constrained 2D interface 53 . Nevertheless, pressure imbalance and resulting (chemo)mechanical degradation is one of the most challenging aspects for solid-state silicon  anodes. 55 In  theory,  using  conversion  cathodes  can  relieve  internal  stresses  caused  by cycling and to achieve high energy density, high capacity cathodes should be paired with high capacity  anodes.  Since  a  lithium  source  is  required  for  sulfur,  cells  were  assembled  using  the lithiated  silicon  anode,  where  minimal  pressure  changes  with  sulfur  were  observed  ( Fig.  6c ). However,  the  LCO  cell  pressure  increases  five  times  that  observed  for  the  sulfur  case,  with pressure  fluctuations  consistent  with  previous  studies 56 .  When  using  the  µSi  anode  with  Li2S, almost  zero  pressure  variation  is  detected  during  the  1 st formation  cycle  ( Fig.  6d ).  The  LCO cathode, however, increases by 3 MPa during the charge. Pressure changes from high-capacity anodes can be successfully compensated using conversion cathodes that are highly utilized. This improves cycle life and mitigates cell 'breathing' during cycling, an important consideration for higher loading cells and when integrating cells into pack level architecture.

High loading electrochemical evaluation . High loading cathodes are necessary to achieve high energy density. Therefore, cells with increasing sulfur loadings were constructed and first paired with the LiIn alloy ( Fig. 7a ). Areal capacities up to 11 mAh cm  -2  with a discharge capacity of 1314 mAh g -1  was obtained ( Fig. 7b ), although with a slight increase in polarization, attributed to the high sulfur loading of 7 mg cm  -2  evaluated at room temperature. Due to the limited critical current density of LiIn alloys, cycling performance of this high loading system was evaluated at 0.52 mA cm  -2  ( Fig. 7c ), showing minimal decay, with 86.8% retention after 140 cycles. The ability to achieve stable cycling at 11 mAh cm  -2  at room temperature, demonstrates the effectiveness of the cathode microstructure. To overcome the low current density of LiIn, free standing cathode films were fabricated via dry process method and paired with a Li2Si anode ( Fig. 7d ). These cells were found to deliver reasonable capacities up to 1C (5.5 mA cm  -2 ) as shown in Fig. 7e , with full recovery at C/20 (0.3 mA cm  -2 ). This dry process sulfur Li2Si system also demonstrates stable cycling performance at 7.4 mAh cm  -2 , resulting in 77.4% retention after 150 cycles at 1.5 mAh cm -2 current densities ( Fig. 7f ).

Fig.  7  | Sulfur  and  Li2S electrochemical  performance  with  energy  density  outlook.  a, Schematic of the sulfur cathode half-cell architecture in pellet cells. b , First cycle voltage profiles with increasing areal capacity. b , Long term cycling stability at the 11 mAh cm -2  level evaluated at room temperature. d , Schematic of the dry process sulfur cathode paired with lithiated silicon in pellet cells. e , Rate performance at the 5.5 mAh cm -2  level. f , Cycling stability at the 7.4 mAh cm -2 level under C/5 current density. g ,  Theoretical gravimetric energy density as a function of wt.% of sulfur and areal capacity. h , Gravimetric energy density comparison between sulfur and Li2S cathodes with various anodes. Values used for these calculations can be found in table S5 . i , Schematic  of  the  Li2S/anode-free  pouch  cell. j ,  First  formation  cycle  at  C/10. k, Cycling performance at the 4.5 mAh cm -2  level under 10MPa and 60  C conditions.

Pouch cell form factors utilizing thick dry process cathodes, thin separator layers, and highcapacity anodes are necessary to achieve high gravimetric energy densities in all-solid-state. 57  In addition, high areal capacity and active weight percentages are also required. Illustrated in Fig. 7g , even lower weight percentages of sulfur at 10 mAh cm  -2  can realize 500 Wh kg  -1  and is likely a more promising approach than increasing the weight percentage of sulfur. This is because after lithiation, the volume of SSE compared to lithiated sulfur will reduce. Despite sulfur possessing a

higher specific capacity than its Li2S counterpart, anode selection is limited to those with a lithium source, making lithium metal or pre-lithiated silicon the only practical option, regardless of their high costs and manufacturing challenges. Using the cathode composition reported in this work, Li2S can achieve over 400 Wh kg -1  using silicon  as the anode and go beyond 500 Wh kg -1  if combined  with  an  anode-free  architecture  ( Fig.  7h ).  Therefore,  a  15  mAh  pouch  cell  was constructed without an anode, utilizing dry process methods, and reducing the separator  layer thickness from 500 µm to 50 µm ( Fig. 7i) . Industry standard formation rates and cycling protocols were used, where this configuration delivers high utilization (1077 mAh g  -1 ) and ICE of 83% ( Fig. 7j) .  Stable  cycling  at  C/3  (1.5  mA  cm -2 )  was  also  achieved  at  relatively  low  stack  pressures compared to the pellet-type cells ( Fig. 7k) .

The electrochemical performances above showcase the versatility of the cathode design methodology, where appropriate synthesis, SSE selection, and optimal cathode microstructure are critical for Li-S chemistry to achieve high utilization and stable cycling. Overall, this approach solves the interfacial, kinetic, and (chemo)mechanical challenges associated with Li-S cathodes in ASSBs. Our work provides a thorough electrochemical, mechanical, and morphological analysis of the critical features required to enable high loading and practical Li-S cathodes. The successful implementation  with  Li2Si,  µSi,  and  anode-free  architectures  presents  a  promising  pathway towards  advancing  the  development  of  safe  and  low-cost  next-generation  high  energy  density batteries.

## Methods

Materials preparation and composite fabrication. Materials were dried under vacuum at 80ºC if not anhydrous and stored and prepared in an argon-filled glovebox. The solid-state electrolyte separator  layer  and  catholyte  used  is  LPSCl  for  its  high  conductivity  (3  mS  cm -1 at  room temperature) purchased from NEI Corporation. When used as a catholyte, LPSCl was milled at 400 rpm for 2 hours to reduce its particle size to near 10 microns using a high energy planetary ball mill. For the sulfur cathode, elemental sulfur (99.98%, Sigma Aldrich) was either used as received or milled at 400 rpm for 10 and 24 hours for micron and sub-micron particles. For the Li2S  cathode,  Li2S  was  either  used  as  received  (99.98%,  Sigma  Aldrich)  or  milled  following similar  procedures as sulfur.  For electrochemical evaluation, optimal cathode composites were milled  for  1  hour  (unless  otherwise  specified)  at  500  rpm  using  a  planetary  ball  mill.  Other composite trials were either first milled with carbon and sulfur at 500 rpm for 1 hour, followed by hand mixing the SSE or hand mixing all components for 1 hour. The composites consisted of 30 wt.% cathode active material, 50 wt.% LPSCl and 20 wt.% of a conductive agent (acetylene black, vapor grown carbon fiber, or Ketjen black (EC-600JD)).

Dry process cathode fabrication . Cathode composite powders were mixed with 1 wt.% PTFE (Chemours)  in  a  hot  mortar  and  pestle  until  dough  like  consistency  is  formed.  The  cathode composite was then hot rolled (MTI corp.) under 60°C conditions with decreasing thickness until a 300 to 200-micron film was made.

SSE film and anode-free layer fabrication . For the SSE film preparation, LPSCl (98 wt.%) and an acrylate binder (2 wt.%) were mixed in p-xylene (Sigma Aldrich). The resulting mixture was casted on a polyethylene terephthalate film and dried under vacuum at 40  C overnight. The slurry for  anode-free  layer  was  prepared  by  mixing  carbon  black  (Imerys),  silver  nanoparticles,  and polyvinylidene  fluoride  (Solvay)  in  N-methylpyrrolidone  (Sigma  Aldrich)  at  a  weight  ratio  of

69.75:23.25:7.0 as described by Lee et al. 58  This slurry was coated onto a 10 μm thick stainlesssteel foil using a doctor blade and subsequently dried in a vacuum oven at 100°C overnight.

Electrochemical Measurements . Electrochemical measurements were performed in custom 10 mm diameter pellet cells constructed out of Grade 5 titanium plungers and polyether ether ketone (PEEK) dies.  For  cell  evaluation  and  CV  measurements,  the  cathode  and  separator  layers  are pressed to 3 tons (375 MPa), while the Li1In or Li metal anode is pressed to 1 ton (125 MPa) or 0.2 ton (25 MPa), respectively. After assembly, the pellet cells are inserted into custom cell holders and hand tightened to 75 MPa unless otherwise stated. EIS, CV, and LSV measurements were collected  using  a  Biologic  SP-300  potentiostat.  For  EIS  measurements,  an  applied  voltage amplitude  of  30mV  and  frequency  range  of  7  MHz  to  20  mHz  was  used.  For  LSV  and  CV measurements, a sweeping rate of 0.1 mV/s was used with voltage ranges between the operating voltage  of  sulfur  (1-3V  vs.  Li/Li + ).  For  all  electrochemical  performance  evaluation,  elemental sulfur cells were cycled under 75 MPa (unless otherwise stated) at room temperature with either Li1In1 or Li2Si acting as the counter electrode. The method to prepare the Li2Si anode followed protocols  outlined  in  prior  work 59 .  Li2S  cells  were  cycled  at  room  temperature  with  casted  Si anodes as described in previous work 53 . Capacity utilization and cell cycling was evaluated using Neware Instrument cyclers (CT-4008T).

Pouch cell fabrication . Al foil, dry processed Li2S cathode, SSE film and anode, were stacked, and packed into a pouch. The pouch was vacuum-sealed and pressed to 500 MPa at 80  C using warm isostatic pressure (WIP).

Scanning electron microscopy .  Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was performed on a FEI Apreo and/or FEI Scios DualBeam focused ion beam (FIB)/SEM with 5 kV accelerating voltage and 0.1 nA beam current for powders and pellets. Powder and pellet samples were prepared in an argon-filled glovebox and transferred using the air-tight transfer arm to avoid any air exposure. For FIB cross-sectional images, milling was done under cryogenic conditions (-180  C) where Ga was used as an ion beam source. Parameters used for all milling conditions of 30 kV, 65 nA, with the subsequent cross-section cleaning performed with 30 kV, 15 to 7 nA, if necessary.

X-ray Diffraction. XRD measurements were collected over a 5 - 50  2  range on a Bruker ApexII-Ultra CCD microfocus Rotating Anode instrument with Mo K  (  = 0.7107 Å) radiation at  the  UCSD  X-Ray  Crystallography  Department.  Samples  were  prepared  in  an  argon-filled glovebox using 0.7 mm boron capillaries, and flame sealed to ensure air-tight measurements of sensitive samples.

X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy. XPS  measurements  were  conducted  using  a  Kratos  Axis Supra XPS instrument. Al Kα radiation was used, with a chamber pressure of less than 5  10 -8 torr during operation. A charge neutralizer was used for insulating samples and the scan resolution was 0.1 eV with a dwell time of 100 ms. CasaXPS was used for fitting and analysis. 60  The data was calibrated based on the C 1s peak at 285 eV where a Shirley-type background was used.

Transmission electron microscopy. The sample was mounted to an airtight cooling holder from Melbuild to eliminate any contaminations to the sulfur/LPSCl/C samples and transferred to the TEM column directly without any air or  moisture  exposure.  The  sample  was  cooled  down  to cryogenic  conditions  (~180℃)  and  stabilized  for  additional  30  minutes  before  electron  beam

exposure.  (S)TEM  results  were  obtained  on  ThermoFisher  Talos  X200  equipped  with  a  Ceta camera operated at 200 kV with low dose capability. The energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) characterization is installed with compositional mapping using 4 in-column SDD Super-X windowless detectors. The data acquisition was operated at low dose condition to minimize any beam damage to the sample.

X-ray Absorption Spectroscopy. Tender X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) measurements were  conducted  at  Taiwan  Light  Source  (TLS)  beamline  16A1  of  the  National  Synchrotron Radiation Research Center (NSRRC) in Hsinchu, Taiwan. The beamline uses a double-crystal Si (111) monochromator for the photon energy range from 2 to 8 keV. All samples were sealed in a pouch made of 2.5 um thick Mylar® film inside an Ar-filled glovebox to prevent the samples from exposure to air. Each sample was mounted onto the holder and placed in the measuring chamber at an angle of 45  to the incident X-ray beam. The chamber is constantly purged with He to reduce the X-ray attenuation for at least 45 minutes before collecting the XAS data. The Sulfur K -edge X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) spectra were collected in the total fluorescence yield (TFY) mode using a Lytle detector with a scanning step of 0.2 eV. The photon energy was calibrated to 2472 eV (maximum in the 1 st  derivative) at the S K -edge using elemental sulfur. The XANES spectra background subtraction, normalization, and the Linear Combination Fit (LCF) were performed on Athena software.  61

Modeling of sulfur electrode geometries. The electrodes structures were stochastically generated using the MATLAB codes from Duquesnoy et al. 62 ,  with the S as spherical particles, and the carbon additives as aggregates. A volume fraction of 10% was dedicated to pores, the S amount ranged from 30 to 60%, and the volume ratio between the LPSCl and carbon additives was kept constant at 5:2. Three different cases were investigated, Bulk, Micro and Nano, with S radii ranging respectively from 25 to 50 µm, 0.5 to 5 µm, and 0.25 to 0.5 µm. To have a representative volume for each condition, the length of the cubic electrodes was 200 µm for the Bulk, 50 µm for the Micro, and 15 µm for the Nano. For each set of S size and amount, 3 electrodes were generated to obtain statistically relevant observables. The evolution of the active surface area was monitored as the specific surface area, i.e. the ratio between the number of pixels of S in contact with LPSCl and the total number of S pixels. The tortuosity of the LPSCl phase was investigated using TauFactor 63  in MATLAB, and the reported value is the average value of the tortuosity of the electrolyte phase in all directions.

Finite Elements Method (FEM) Simulations. The electrodes were meshed using the open-access toolbox Iso2Mesh 64  and later imported into COMSOL Multiphysics 6.1. There, using the Solids Mechanics module, the set of parameters and equations in Table S3 and Table S4 were set. In the model,  the  electrode  was  assumed  to  be  fully  compact  (no  porosity)  and  the  S  particles  were uniformly lithiated throughout the simulation, leading to a volume expansion made possible with the 'Hygroscopic Swelling' node which normally accounts for the volume expansion of solids due to the amount of water. During the simulation, the external boundaries of the electrode were fixed. To determine  the analog hygroscopic coefficient of each  type of S particles, a 2-D simulation consisting  of  the  exact  same  model  for  a  single  S  particle  was  performed.  The  hygroscopic coefficient  was  deemed  adequate  when  the  S  particle  would  reach  the  desired  volumetric expansion (controlled here by its radius) at full lithiation. The cases of sub-micro and micron S were investigated through FEM simulations for an AM content of 30 wt.% where three electrodes were used for each case,  and the value reported in the manuscript  are averaged over all three electrodes.

## Acknowledgments

The authors would like to acknowledge the UCSD Crystallography Facility. This work was also performed in part at the San Diego Nanotechnology Infrastructure (SDNI) of UCSD, a member of the  National  Nanotechnology  Coordinated  Infrastructure,  which  is  supported  by  the  National Science Foundation (Grant ECCS-1542148), along with the use of facilities and instrumentation supported by NSF through the UC San Diego Materials Research Science and Engineering Center (UCSD MRSEC), grant #DMR-201192. The authors would like to also acknowledge the use of facilities  and  instrumentation  at  the  UC  Irvine  Materials  Research  Institute  (IMRI),  which  is supported in part by the National Science Foundation through the UC Irvine Materials Research Science  and  Engineering  Center  (DMR-2011967).  The  XPS  work  was  performed  using instrumentation funded in part by the National Science Foundation Major Research Instrumentation Program under grant No. CHE-1338173. Funding: This work was funded by the LG  Energy Solution through the Frontier Research Laboratory (FRL) Program. A.C. acknowledges the National Science Foundation for having supported their Ph.D. research through the NSF Graduate Research Fellowship Program.

Author contributions. A.C. and Y.S.M. conceived the ideas for the study. A.C., J.B.L., and X.W. designed the experiments. B.S., P.R., G.D., C.H., D.C., and A.C. performed the XRD, XPS, XAS, FIB, and TGA experiments. M.C. performed the modeling and FEM simulations. C.L. and D.L. fabricated and evaluated the pouch cells. J.A.S.O., G.D., S.-Y.H., H.Y., M.V., J.J., M.-S.S., J.B.L., and Y.S.M. participated in the scientific discussion and data analysis. A.C. wrote the manuscript. All authors discussed the results and commented on the manuscript. All authors have approved the final manuscript.

Competing interests. Two patents were filed for this work through UC San Diego's Office of Innovation and Commercialization and LG Energy Solution, Ltd.

## References

1. A. Marjolin. Lithium-ion battery capacity to grow steadily to 2030. S&amp;P Global Market Intelligence (2023).
2. B. A. Adu-Gyamfi, C. Good, Electric aviation: A review of concepts and enabling technologies. Transportation Engineering , 9 , 100134, (2022).
3. D. A. Dornbusch, R. P. Viggiano, J. W. Connell, Y . Lin, V . F. Lvovich, Practical considerations in designing solid state Li-S cells for electric aviation. Electrochim Acta , 403 (2022).
4. A. Manthiram, Y. Fu, Y. S. Su, Challenges and prospects of lithium-sulfur batteries. Acc Chem Res 46 , 1125-1134 (2013).
5. J. Sun, T. Wang, Y . Gao, Z. Pan, R. Hu, J. Wang, Will lithium-sulfur batteries be the next beyond-lithium-ion batteries and even much better? InfoMat , DOI: 10.1002/inf2.12359 (2022).

6. J. R. Akridge, Y . V . Mikhaylik, N. White, Li/S fundamental chemistry and application to high-performance rechargeable batteries. Solid State Ionics , 175 , 243-245 (2004).
7. Ren, W., Ma, W., Zhang, S. Tang, B. Recent advances in shuttle effect inhibition for lithium sulfur batteries. Energy Storage Materials , 23, 707-732 (2019).
8. S. Ohno, W. G. Zeier. Toward Practical Solid-State Lithium-Sulfur Batteries: Challenges and Perspectives. Acc Mater Res., 2 , 869-880 (2021).
9. A. Manthiram, Y. Fu, S. H. Chung, S. Zu, Y.S. Su. Rechargeable lithium-sulfur batteries. Chemical Reviews vol. 114 11751-11787, (2014).
10. J.A., Lewis, J. Tippens, F. J. Q., Cortes, M.T., McDowell. Chemo-Mechanical Challenges in Solid-State Batteries. Trends in Chemistry vol. 1 845-857 (2019).
11. M. Chen, S. Adams, High performance all-solid-state lithium/sulfur batteries using lithium argyrodite electrolyte. Journal of Solid-State Electrochemistry , 19 , 697-702 (2015).
12. S. Kinoshita, K. Okuda, N. Machida, M. Naito, T. Sigematsu, All-solid-state lithium battery with sulfur/carbon composites as positive electrode materials . Solid State Ion., 256 , 97-102 (2014).
13. C. Yu, L. van Eijck, S. Ganapathy, M. Wagemaker, Synthesis, structure, and electrochemical performance of the argyrodite Li6PS5Cl solid electrolyte for Li-ion solid state batteries. Electrochim Acta ., 215 , 93-99 (2016).
14. X. Zhu, W. Jiang, S. Zhao, R. Huang, M. Ling, C. Liang, L. Wang, Exploring the concordant solid-state electrolytes for all-solid-state lithium-sulfur batteries. Nano Energy , 96 (2022).
15. H. Kim, H. N. Choi, J. Y . Hwang, C. S. Yoon, Y . K. Sun, Tailoring the Interface between Sulfur and Sulfide Solid Electrolyte for High-Areal-Capacity All-Solid-State Lithium-Sulfur Batteries. ACS Energy Lett ., 3971-3979 (2023).
16. S. Wang, Y. Zhang, X. Zhang, T. Liu, Y . H. Lin, Y . Shen, L. Li, C. W. Nan, HighConductivity Argyrodite Li6PS5Cl Solid Electrolytes Prepared via Optimized Sintering Processes for All-Solid-State Lithium-Sulfur Batteries. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces , 10 , 42279-42285 (2018).
17. Y. Zhang, T. Liu, Q. Zhang, X. Zhang, S. Wang, X. Wang, L. Li, L. Z. Fan, C. W. Nan, Y. Shen, High-performance all-solid-state lithium-sulfur batteries with sulfur/carbon nano-hybrids in a composite cathode. J Mater Chem A Mater , 6 , 23345-23356 (2018).

18. X. Yao, N. Huang, F. Han, Q. Zhang, H. Wan, J. P. Mwizerwa, C. Wang, X. Xu, HighPerformance All-Solid-State Lithium-Sulfur Batteries Enabled by Amorphous SulfurCoated Reduced Graphene Oxide Cathodes. Adv. Energy Mater , 7 (2017).
19. A. S. Alzahrani, M. Otaki, D. Wang, Y . Gao, T. S. Arthur, S. Liu, D. Wang, Confining Sulfur in Porous Carbon by Vapor Deposition to Achieve High-Performance Cathode for All-Solid-State Lithium-Sulfur Batteries. ACS Energy Lett ., 6 , 413-418 (2021).
20. J. Zhou, M. L. Holekevi Chandrappa, S. Tan, S. Wang, C. Wu, H. Nguyen, C. Wang, H. Liu, S. Yu, Q. R. S. Miller, G. Hyun, J. Holoubek, J. Hong, Y . Xiao, C. Soulen, Z. Fan, E. E. Fullerton, C. J. Brooks, C. Wang, R. J. Clément, Y . Yao, E. Hu, S. P. Ong, P. Liu, Healable and conductive sulfur iodide for solid-state Li-S batteries. Nature 627 , 301-305 (2024).
21. K. Fu, Y. Gong, G. T. Hitz, D. W. McOwen, Y. Li, S. Xu, Y . Wen, L. Zhang, C. Wang, G. Pastel, J. Dai, B. Liu, H. Xie, Y . Yao, E. D. Wachsman, L. Hu, Three-dimensional bilayer garnet solid electrolyte based high energy density lithium metal-sulfur batteries. Energy Environ. Sci., 10 , 1568-1575 (2017).
22. H. Yang, L. Wang, C. Geng, Y. Zhao, Q. Li, X. Jiang, Z. Tian, M. Wang, C. Jiang, Z. Sun, B. Cui, Y . B. He, W. Chen, W. Lv, Q. H. Yang, Catalytic Solid-State Sulfur Conversion Confined in Micropores toward Superhigh Coulombic Efficiency Lithium-Sulfur Batteries. Adv Energy Mater , doi: 10.1002/aenm.202400249 (2024).
23. Y. Liu, X. Meng, Z. Wang, J. Qiu, A Li2S-based all-solid-state battery with high energy and superior safety. Sci. Adv ., 8 , eabl8390 (2022).
24. X. Zhu, L. Wang, Z. Bai, J. Lu, T. Wu, Sulfide-Based All-Solid-State Lithium-Sulfur Batteries: Challenges and Perspectives. Nanomicro. Lett., 15 (2023).
25. D. Wang, L. J. Jhang, R. Kou, M. Liao, S. Zheng, H. Jiang, P. Shi, G. X. Li, K. Meng, D. Wang, Realizing high-capacity all-solid-state lithium-sulfur batteries using a lowdensity inorganic solid-state electrolyte. Nat Commun ., 14 (2023).
26. D. H. S. Tan, E. A. Wu, H. Nguyen, Z. Chen, M. A. T. Marple, J. M. Doux, X. Wang, H. Yang, A. Banerjee, Y . S. Meng, Elucidating Reversible Electrochemical Redox of Li6PS5Cl Solid Electrolyte. ACS Energy Lett. , 2418-2427 (2019).
27. J. Jang, Y . T. Chen, G. Deysher, D. Cheng, S. Y . Ham, A. Cronk, P. Ridley, H. Yang, B. Sayahpour, B. Han, W. Li, W. Yao, E. A. Wu, J. M. Doux, L. H. B. Nguyen, J. A. S. Oh, D. H. S. Tan, Y . S. Meng, Enabling a Co-Free, High-V oltage LiNi0.5Mn1.5O4 Cathode in All-Solid-State Batteries with a Halide Electrolyte. ACS Energy Lett ., 7, 2531-2539 (2022).
28. A. Cronk, Y. T. Chen, G. Deysher, S. Y . Ham, H. Yang, P. Ridley, B. Sayahpour, L. H. B. Nguyen, J. A. S. Oh, J. Jang, D. H. S. Tan, Y . S. Meng, Overcoming the Interfacial Challenges of LiFePO4 in Inorganic All-Solid-State Batteries. ACS Energy Lett., 8, 827-835 (2023).

29. Z. Lin, Z. Liu, W. Fu, N. J. Dudney, C. Liang, Lithium polysulfidophosphates: A family of lithium-conducting sulfur-rich compounds for lithium-sulfur batteries. Angewandte Chemie - International Edition , 52 , 7460-7463 (2013).
30. C. Zheng, K. Wang, L. Li, H. Huang, C. Liang, Y . Gan, X. He, W. Zhang, J. Zhang, High-Performance All-Solid-State Lithium-Sulfur Batteries Enabled by SlurryCoated Li6PS5Cl/S/C Composite Electrodes. Front Energy Res 8 , (2021).
31. H. Pan. M. Zhang, Z. Cheng, H. Jiang, J. Yang, P. Wang, P. He, H. Zhou , CarbonFree and Binder-Free Li-Al Alloy Anode Enabling an All-Solid-State Li-S Battery with High Energy and Stability. Sci. Adv, 8, 4372 (2022).
32. X. Gao, X. Zheng, Y. Tsao, P. Zhang, X. Xiao, Y. Ye, J. Li, Y. Yang, R. Xu, Z. Bao, Y. Cui , All-Solid-State Lithium-Sulfur Batteries Enhanced by Redox Mediators. J Am Chem Soc 143 , 18188-18195 (2021).
33. S. Ohno, R. Koerver, G. Dewald, C. Rosenbach, P. Titscher, D. Steckermeier, A. Kwade, J. Janek, W. G. Zeier, Observation of Chemomechanical Failure and the Influence of Cutoff Potentials in All-Solid-State Li-S Batteries. Chemistry of Materials , 31 , 2930-2940 (2019).
34. R. Schlem, C. F. Burmeister, P. Michalowski, S. Ohno, G. F. Dewald, A. Kwade, W. G. Zeier, Energy Storage Materials for Solid-State Batteries: Design by Mechanochemistry. Adv. Energy Mater ., 11 , 2101022 (2021).
35. J. T. Kim, S. Hu, Y. Zhong, C. Wang, H. Wu, D. Zhao, C. Wang, X. Sun, Y. Li, Allsolid-state lithium-sulfur batteries through a reaction engineering lens. Nature Chemical Engineering 1 , 400-410 (2024).
36. F. Chen, P. Puente, Y. Zhang, S. Cao, X. Lu, Z. Yi, Q. Shen, J. Li, All-solid-state lithium-sulfur batteries assembled by composite polymer electrolyte and amorphous sulfur/rGO composite cathode. Solid State Ion 380 , (2022).
37. L. Lodovico, S. Milad Hosseini, A. Varzi, S. Passerini, Amorphous Lithium Sulfide as Lithium-Sulfur Battery Cathode with Low Activation Barrier. Energy Technology 7 , (2019).
38. L. Li, Z. Ma, Y . Li, Accurate determination of optimal sulfur content in mesoporous carbon hosts for high-capacity stable lithium-sulfur batteries. Carbon , 197 , 200-208 (2022).
39. A. T. Ward, Raman Spectroscopy of Sulfur, Sulfur-Selenium, and Sulfur-Arsenic Mixtures. J Phys Chem ., 72 , 4133-4139 (1968).
40. R. Dominko, A. Vizintin, G. Aquilanti, L. Stievano, M. J. Helen, A. R. Munnangi, M. Fichtner, I. Arcon, Polysulfides Formation in Different Electrolytes from the

- Perspective of X-ray Absorption Spectroscopy. J Electrochem. Soc., 165 , A5014A5019 (2018).
41. M. Tachez, J.-P. Malugani, R. Mercier, G. Robert, Ionic Conductivity of and Phase Transition in Lithium Thiophosphate Li3PS4. Solid State Ionics , 14 , 181-185 (1984).
42. T. K. Schwietert, V . A. Arszelewska, C. Wang, C. Yu, A. Vasileiadis, N. J. J. de Klerk, J. Hageman, T. Hupfer, I. Kerkamm, Y. Xu, E. van der Maas, E. M. Kelder, S. Ganapathy, M. Wagemaker, Clarifying the relationship between redox activity and electrochemical stability in solid electrolytes. Nat. Mater ., 19 , 428-435 (2020).
43. M. Cuisinier, P. E. Cabelguen, S. Evers, G. He, M. Kolbeck, A. Garsuch, T. Bolin, M. Balasubramanian, L. F. Nazar, Sulfur speciation in Li-S batteries determined by operando X-ray absorption spectroscopy. Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters , 4 , 3227-3232 (2013).
44. A. Manceau, K. L. Nagy, Quantitative analysis of sulfur functional groups in natural organic matter by XANES spectroscopy. Geochim. Cosmochim. Acta ., 99 , 206-223 (2012).
45. A. L. Santhosha, L. Medenbach, J. R. Buchheim, P. Adelhelm, The Indium-Lithium Electrode in Solid-State Lithium-Ion Batteries: Phase Formation, Redox Potentials, and Interface Stability. Batteries &amp; Supercaps , 2 , 524-529 (2019).
46. B. A. Mei, O. Munteshari, J. Lau, B. Dunn, L. Pilon, Physical Interpretations of Nyquist Plots for EDLC Electrodes and Devices. Journal of Physical Chemistry C , 122 , 194-206 (2018).
47. J. Gu, Z. Liang, J. Shi, Y . Yang, Electrochemo-Mechanical Stresses and Their Measurements in Sulfide-Based All-Solid-State Batteries: A Review. Adv. Energy Mater. , 13 , 2203153 (2023).
48. H. Zhong, Y. Su, R. Ma, Y. Luo, H. Lin, J. Gu, Z. Gong, Y . Yang, Nano-Scale Interface Engineering of Sulfur Cathode to Enable High-Performance All-Solid-State Li-S Batteries. Adv Funct. Mater ., doi: 10.1002/adfm.202315925 (2024).
49. X. Ji, K. T. Lee, L. F. Nazar, A highly ordered nanostructured carbon-sulphur cathode for lithium-sulphur batteries . Nat. Mater ., 8 , 500-506 (2009).
50. F. Han, J. Yue, X. Fan, T. Gao, C. Luo, Z. Ma, L. Suo, C. Wang, High-performance all-solid-state lithium-sulfur battery enabled by a mixed-conductive Li2S nanocomposite. Nano Lett ., 16 , 4521-4527 (2016).
51. A. Schiele, T. Hatsukade, B. B. Berkes, P. Hartmann, T. Brezesinski, J. Janek, HighThroughput in Situ Pressure Analysis of Lithium-Ion Batteries. Anal. Chem ., 89 , 8122-8128 (2017).

52. Z. Deng, Z. Wang, I.-H. Chu, J. Luo, S. P. Ong, Elastic Properties of Alkali Superionic Conductor Electrolytes from First Principles Calculations. J. Electrochem. Soc. , 163 , A67-A74 (2016).
53. D. H. S. Tan, Y .-T. Chen, H. Yang, W. Bao, B. Sreenarayanan, J.-M. Doux, W. Li, B. Lu, S.-Y. Ham, B. Sayahpour, J. Scharf, E. A. Wu, G. Deysher, H. E. Han, J. Hah, H. Jeong, J. B. Lee, Z. Chen, Y . S. Meng, Carbon-free high-loading silicon anodes enabled by sulfide solid electrolytes. Science 373 , 1494-1499 (2021).
54. J. N. Reimers, J. R. Dahn, Electrochemical and In Situ X-Ray Diffraction Studies of Lithium Intercalation in LixCoO2. J. Electrochem. Soc. , 139 , 2091-2097 (1992).
55. H. Huo, M. Jiang, Y. Bai, S. Ahmed, K. V olz, H. Hartmann, A. Henss, C. V . Singh, D. Raabe, J. Janek, Chemo-mechanical failure mechanisms of the silicon anode in solidstate batteries. Nat. Mater. , 23 , 543-551 (2024).
56. R. Koerver, W. Zhang, L. De Biasi, S. Schweidler, A. O. Kondrakov, S. Kolling, T. Brezesinski, P. Hartmann, W. G. Zeier, J. Janek, Chemo-mechanical expansion of lithium electrode materials-on the route to mechanically optimized all-solid-state batteries. Energy Environ. Sci., 11 , 2142-2158 (2018).
57. D. H. S. Tan, Y . S. Meng, J. Jang, Scaling up high-energy-density sulfidic solid-state batteries: A lab-to-pilot perspective. Joule , 6, 1755-1769 (2022).
58. Y. G. Lee, S. Fujiki, C. Jung, N. Suzuki, N. Yashiro, R. Omoda, D. S. Ko, T. Shiratsuchi, T. Sugimoto, S. Ryu, J. H. Ku, T. Watanabe, Y . Park, Y . Aihara, D. Im, I. T. Han, High-energy long-cycling all-solid-state lithium metal batteries enabled by silver-carbon composite anodes. Nat Energy, 5 , 299-308 (2020).
59. S. Y. Ham, E. Sebti, A. Cronk, T. Pennebaker, G. Deysher, Y . T. Chen, J. A. S. Oh, J. B. Lee, M. S. Song, P. Ridley, D. H. S. Tan, R. J. Clément, J. Jang, Y . S. Meng, Overcoming low initial coulombic efficiencies of Si anodes through prelithiation in all-solid-state batteries. Nat. Commun., 15 (2024).
60. N. Fairley, V . Fernandez, M. Richard-Plouet, C. Guillot-Deudon, J. Walton, E. Smith, D. Flahaut, M. Greiner, M. Biesinger, S. Tougaard, D. Morgan, J. Baltrusaitis, Systematic and collaborative approach to problem solving using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy. Applied Surface Science Advances, 5 (2021).
61. B. Ravel, M. Newville, ATHENA, ARTEMIS, HEPHAESTUS: Data analysis for Xray absorption spectroscopy using IFEFFIT. Journal of Synchrotron Radiation, 12 , 537-541 (2005).
62. M. Duquesnoy, T. Lombardo, M. Chouchane, E. N. Primo, A. A. Franco, Data-driven assessment of electrode calendering process by combining experimental results, in silico mesostructures generation and machine learning. J Power Sources, 480 (2020).

63. S. J. Cooper, A. Bertei, P. R. Shearing, J. A. Kilner, N. P. Brandon, TauFactor: An open-source application for calculating tortuosity factors from tomographic data. SoftwareX, 5 , 203-210 (2016).
64. A. P. Tran, S. Yan, Q. Fang, Improving model-based functional near-infrared spectroscopy analysis using mesh-based anatomical and light-transport models. Neurophotonics, 7 , 1 (2020).

Supplementary Information is available for this paper.