Q. Huang, X. Chen School of Electronic Science and Engineering (School of Microelectronics)

South China Normal University

Foshan 528225, P. R. China

E-mail: chenxinman@m.scnu.edu.cn

Q.Huang,J.Liu,P.Zhang,X.Liu SchoolofMaterialsScienceandEngineering BeihangUniversity

Beijing 100191, P. R. China

E-mail: xiangliu@buaa.edu.cn

J. Liu

SchoolofMaterialsScienceandEngineering

Qiqihar University

Qiqihar 161006, P. R. China

L. Lu, D. Ren, M. Ouyang SchoolofVehicleandMobility

TsinghuaUniversity

Beijing 100084, P. R. China

TsinghuaUniversity

Beijing 100084, P. R. China

E-mail: rds@tsinghua.edu.cn

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202410006

DOI: 10.1002/adma.202410006

www.advmat.de

## Recent Progress and Challenges of Li-Rich Mn-Based Cathode Materials for Solid-State Lithium-Ion Batteries

Qiqiang Huang, Jinquan Liu, Xinman Chen,* Peng Zhang, Languang Lu, Dongsheng Ren,* Minggao Ouyang, and Xiang Liu*

Li-rich Mn-based (LRM) cathode materials, characterized by their high specific capacity ( &gt; 250 mAh g -1 ) and cost-e/uniFB00ectiveness, represent promising candidates for next-generation lithium-ion batteries. However, their commercial application is hindered by rapid capacity degradation and voltage fading, which can be attributed to transition metal migration, lattice oxygen release, and the toxicity of Mn ions to the anode solid electrolyte interphase (SEI). Recently, the application of LRM cathode in all-solid-state batteries (ASSBs) has garnered significant interest, as this approach eliminates the liquid electrolyte, thereby suppressing transition metal crosstalk and solid-liquid interfacial side reactions. This review first examines the historical development, crystal structure, and mechanisms underlying the high capacity of LRM cathode materials. It then introduces the current challenges facing LRM cathode and the associated degradation mechanisms and proposes solutions to these issues. Additionally, it summarizes recent research on LRM materials in ASSBs and suggests strategies for improvement. Finally, the review discusses future research directions for LRM cathode materials, including optimized material design, bulk doping, surface coating, developing novel solid electrolytes, and interface engineering. This review aims to provide further insights and new perspectives on applying LRM cathode materials in ASSBs.

## 1. Introduction

As a new type of green energy storage battery, lithium-ion batteries are driving the rapid development of new energy vehicles to replace traditional fuel vehicles. [ 1,2] Currently, the primary cathode materials for lithium-ion batteries available on the market include LiCoO2 , LiFePO4 , LiNi 1-x-yCoxMnyO2 (where x &gt; 0 and y &gt; 0), and xLi2MnO3 · (1-x)LiMO 2 (0 &lt; x &lt; 1, M = Ni, Co, Mn). [3-5] Comparisons of their actual specific capacities and various performance metrics are presented in Figure 1 a,b. In contrast, LRM cathode materials have higher discharge-specific capacity and energy density. China's vision for new energy power batteries stipulates that energy density must reach 400 Wh kg -1 by 2025 and 500 Wh kg -1 by 2030. It is essential to develop cathode materials with higher energy density to achieve these targets. LRM cathode materials are primary candidates for high-energy-density applications due to their superior specific capacity. [ 6]

The development of LRM materials can be traced back to the 1970s, originating from the study of Li 2 MnO3. Li2 MnO3 has a layered rock-salt structure belonging to the C/2m space group, where 1/3 of the Mn is replaced by Li, forming a honeycomb-like superlattice structure. Although Li 2 MnO3 contains a significant amount of mobile Li + , it was initially considered electrochemically inactive because Mn in the + 4 oxidation state was thought incapable of further oxidation. [ 7] In 1991, Thackeray et al. [ 8] simulated lithium extraction through chemical delithiation in an acid solution, treating Li 2 MnO3 to remove part of the Li 2 O and producing Li 2-x MnO3-x/2 . This material exhibited a capacity of approximately 200 mAh g -1 and confirmed the reversible intercalation of lithium-ions in the /u1D6FC -MnO2 structure. In 1997, Numata et al. [ 9] synthesized LiCoO 2 -Li2MnO3 solid solutions, where Li2MnO3, acting as an inert component, enhanced the stability of LiCoO 2 , although its electrochemical activity had not yet been explored. In 1999, Kalyani et al. [ 10] reported for the first time that Li2MnO3 could be activated when charged above 4.5 V, overturning the prevailing view of its inertness. Since then, composite materials combining Li 2 MnO3 with other layered transition metal oxides have rapidly developed. By 2003, a series of LRM materials had been developed, such as Li(Ni x Li 1/3-2x/3 Mn2/3-x/3 )O2 [ 11] and

www.advmat.de

Figure 1. Comparison of the performance of di/uniFB00erent cathode materials. a) Actual specific capacity of cathode materials. b) Comparison of various properties of cathode materials (LCO: LiCoO 2 , LFP: LiFePO 4 , NCM/NCA: LiNi 0.8 Co 0.1 Mn0.1 O 2 /LiNi 0.8 Co 0.1 Al 0.1 O2 , LRM cathodes:xLi 2MnO3 · (1-x)LiMO 2 . c) The number of published papers on Li-rich oxide cathode was sorted by year. The data were obtained from the 'Web of Science' using the search term 'Li-rich oxide cathode'.

Li(Co x Li 1/3-x/3 Mn2/3-2x/3 )O2 , [ 12] releasing capacities exceeding 200 mAh g -1 in the voltage range of 2.0-4.8 V. In 2004, Thackeray [ 13] published a review discussing the contributions of Li 2 MnO3 to structural stability and high capacity, o/uniFB03cially introducing the concept of xLi2MnO3 · (1-x)LiMO 2 .

LRM layered oxide xLi2MnO3 · (1-x)LiMO 2 cathode materials have attracted significant attention due to their high specific capacity, abundant resources, and low cost. [14,15] The annual increase in published papers on Li-rich oxide cathode materials since 2010 further underscores their importance, as shown in Figure 1c. However, pursuing high energy density comes at the expense of other properties, and LRM materials face several serious challenges. These challenges include: 1) Low initial Coulombic e/uniFB03ciency (ICE), as irreversible lattice oxygen loss results in a lower ICE during the first charge/discharge cycle. 2) Rapid capacity degradation, with continuous capacity loss during cycling, presents a significant challenge that a/uniFB00ects their long service life. 3) Poor rate performance, where slow reaction kinetics and lower electron conductivity are major bottlenecks limiting ultrafast charging technology. 4) Voltage fading, which occurs during charge/discharge cycles and leads to a continuous decrease in battery energy density. 5) Voltage hysteresis, which refers to the energy loss during charge and discharge cycles, reduces the battery's overall energy e/uniFB03ciency. 6) Low compaction density, which results in a reduced volumetric energy density for LRM materials.

In recent years, numerous techniques have been developed to enhance the performance of LRM cathode materials. However, improving their overall performance across all aspects remains a significant challenge. The primary modification strategies currently include morphology and structural design, doping, coating, surface engineering, and other techniques. [ 16,17] Due to the complexity of the LRM structure, the reaction mechanisms and roles of these modifications are not yet fully understood. Therefore, this review focuses on the LRM structure and its reaction mechanisms to elucidate the current challenges and modification strategies for LRM. Additionally, a detailed overview of the progress of the research on applying LRM in ASSBs is presented. Finally, we discuss prospects and directions for the future development of LRM, o/uniFB00ering new insights for developing nextgeneration high-energy-density lithium-ion batteries.

## 2. Structure of LRM Cathode

An in-depth study of the structure of LRM cathode materials is crucial for understanding the reaction mechanisms and electrochemical performance associated with their high specific capacity. In recent years, the development of advanced characterization techniques has resulted in an increasing number of studies on the complex crystal structure of LRM cathodes. However, there is currently no consensus in the scientific community regarding this structure, which is primarily described by two models: the

www.advmat.de

Figure 2. Structure of LRM cathode materials. a) Crystal structure diagrams of LiTMO 2 with R-3m space group and Li 2 MnO 3 with C2/m space group. Reproduced with permission. [19] Copyright 2015, American Chemical Society. b) The super large and atomic-resolution high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) images of LiTMO 2 and Li 2 MnO3. Reproduced with permission. [20] Copyright 2016, American Chemical Society. c) STEM image of LRM. Reproduced with permission. [23] Copyright 2011, American Chemical Society.

two-phase composite model and the single-phase solid solution model.

The two-phase composite model was first proposed by Thackeray et al. [ 18] with its chemical formula expressed as xLi2MnO3 · (1-x)LiMO 2 . This model posits that the LRM cathode consists of a nanoscale mixture of a layered hexagonal structure of LiMO 2 (with the R-3m space group) and a layered monoclinic structure of Li2MnO3 (with the C2/m space group), as shown in Figure 2 a. [ 19] The structures of Li 2 MnO3 and LiMO2 exhibit significant similarity, characterized by O3-type oxygen close packing, where lithium-ions and transition metals occupy octahedral vacancies. Additionally, distinguishing these two layered phases via high-resolution transmission electron microscopy poses great challenges, as the (001) crystalline plane of Li2MnO3 and the (003) crystalline plane of LiMO2 can be well compounded, both exhibiting a spacing of approximately 0.47 nm. In recent years, the continuous application of advanced characterization techniques in studying LRM cathode materials has

led researchers to increasingly endorse the two-phase composite model. Yu et al. [ 20] calculated the phase compositions of 0.5Li2MnO3 · 0.5LiMn 0.42 Ni 0.42 Co0.16O2 using X-ray synchrotron radiation with Rietveld refinement. The results indicated that the hexagonal and monoclinic phases account for 43% and 57%, respectively, which generally aligns with the design results. Additionally, they employed the Ar ion slicing technique combined with advanced microscopy to directly observe the complex structure within the grains, concluding that symbiotic phases formed by the interaction of Li 2 MnO3 and LiMO2 exist within each of the 'twin domains', as shown in Figure 2b.

Despite the substantial evidence for a two-phase structure, some researchers consider the LRM cathode xLi2MnO3 · (1-x)LiMO 2 to be a single-phase solid solution model, initially proposed by Dahn's teams. [21] They observed that the lattice parameters of the material exhibit a linear variation with composition, consistent with Vegard's law for solid solutions. [ 22] Jarvis et al. [ 23] employed aberration-corrected STEM combined with

www.advancedsciencenews.com

X-ray di/uniFB00raction (XRD) and neutron di/uniFB00raction (ND) to demonstrate that Li[Li 0.2 Ni 0.2 Mn0.6 ]O 2 consists of a mixture of materials with C2/m monoclinic symmetry and multiple planar defects, as shown in Figure 2c. Koga et al. [ 24] utilized characterization tools such as nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) to demonstrate that Li 1.20 Mn0.54 Co0.13 Ni 0.13O2 is not composed of separate domains of Li 2 MnO3 and LiNi 1/3 Mn1/3 Co1/3O2 but is a solid solution.

The debate regarding whether LRM cathode materials are twophase composites or single-phase solid solutions remains unresolved. Some studies indicate that factors such as oxygen content, lithium salt concentration, cooling rate, and sintering process during synthesis can lead to varying phase compositions. [ 25,26] Although the structure of LRM cathode materials is still inconclusive, investigations into their valence bond structure and energy band structure have enhanced the understanding of their reaction mechanisms. Therefore, based on previous research, greater e/uniFB00orts are necessary to improve the overall performance of LRM cathode materials and facilitate their commercialization.

## 3. High Capacity Generation Mechanism

The ultra-high specific capacity of LRM cathode materials during the charging and discharging process has been troubling the scientific research community for a long time, and the controversy about the mechanism of its high specific capacity generation has been persisting. The first charging process of LRM cathode materials can be divided into two parts. When the voltage is 2.0-4.4 V, Li + is dislodged from the LiMO 2 layered structure, accompanied by the oxidation of Ni 2 + /Co 3 + to Ni 4 + /Co 4 + . When the voltage is 4.4-4.8 V, Li + is detached from the structure of Li2MnO3,atwhich time Mn is already at + 4 valence, and it isn't easy to oxidize to a higher valence state. [ 7] However, the charging specific capacity of LRMcathode is much higher than that provided by Ni 2 + /Co 3 + oxidized to Ni 4 + /Co 4 + , so where the excess capacity comes from has been a hot spot for researchers to explore.

## 3.1. Oxygen Loss Mechanism

The oxygen loss mechanism model was first proposed by Lu and Dahn in 2002, who found by studying the charge/discharge curves of Li[Ni x Li (1/3-2x/3) Mn(2/3-x/3) ]O 2 (x = 1/6, 1/4, 1/3, 5/12 and 1/2) that when the charging voltage reaches 4.45 V, a smooth reversible charging curve is generated, which is accompanied by the fact that Ni 2 + being oxidized to Ni 4 + with the release of 2x Li + . [ 27,28] Surprisingly, when continuing to be charged to a higher voltage, a longer platform was produced between 4.54.7 V. During discharge following this platform (2.0-4.8 V), the material produced a discharge capacity of 225 mAh g -1 . Analyzing the results of the tests by in situ XRD and capacity di/uniFB00erentiation, they concluded that the extra-long platform produced could be due to an irreversible loss of oxygen during charging, the formation of oxygen-deficient layered materials, and then a reversible reaction in these oxygen-deficient materials with lithium. In addition, they also studied the charge-discharge curves of Li[Cr x Li (1/3-x/3) Mn(2/3-2x/3) ]O 2 (x = 0, 1/6, 1/4, 1/3, 1/2, 2/3, 5/6). The discharge reversible capacity of the material was as high as 230 mAh g -1 between 2.0 and 4.8 V, again attributed to a partially irreversible loss of oxygen during the first charge.

Adv. Mater. 2025 , 37 , 2410006

www.advmat.de

In 2006, Bruce et al. [29] first observed the release of O 2 in the Li[Ni 0.2 Li 0.2 Mn0.6 ]O 2 using in situ di/uniFB00erential electrochemical mass spectrometry (DEMS) and other techniques. When the voltage reaches 4.5 V, the Fermi energy levels align with the oxygen valence band, exceeding the conventional intercalation limit. Consequently, removing electrons from the surface of O 2 -will be accompanied by the extraction of Li + . As oxygen escapes from the surface, lithium-ions migrate from the transition metal octahedra to the lithium layer, forming vacancies.

Then, the transition metal di/uniFB00uses from the surface to the bulk phase to occupy these vacancies, until all octahedral sites vacated by lithium ions are occupied by the transition metal, at which point oxygen ceases to precipitate. At voltages exceeding 4.5 V, Li 2 Ois stripped from the material, forming a layered MO 2 structure where Mn and Ni predominantly occupy the M octahedral sites. This structure is the primary framework for reversible lithium intercalation, yielding a high reversible capacity exceeding 200 mAh g -1 . Yabuuchi et al. [30] investigated the reaction mechanism at the electrode surface of Li 1.2 Co0.13 Ni 0.13 Mn0.54O2 cathode material using synchrotron X-ray di/uniFB00raction (SXRD), Xray absorption spectroscopy (XAS), time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry (TOF-SIMS), and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) techniques, as shown in Figure 3 a. Upon charging to 4.8 V, both Li + andO 2 -were removed from the oxide lattice, and Rietveld analysis revealed that ≈ 7.5% of O 2 -was stripped from the lattice, forming oxygen gas. Simulations of SXRD and X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) spectra indicated that the loss of lattice oxygen leads to cation rearrangement, with ≈ 5%ofthe Ni migrating from the metal layer to the lithium layer. During discharge, when the voltage is below 3.0 V, the oxygen molecules in the battery undergo electrochemical reduction to form O 2 -, which subsequently reacts to create oxygen-containing material deposited on the surface, resulting in additional capacity. This oxygen-containing material undergoes electrochemical decomposition during the second charge above 4.0 V, resulting in an irreversible loss of capacity. Initially, although this oxygen loss mechanism provided a plausible explanation for the high capacity of LRM at high voltages, this 'irreversible mechanism' could not adequately explain the reversible charge/discharge behavior of anionic redox.

## 3.2. H + Exchange Mechanism

Shortly after Lu and Dahn proposed the oxygen loss mechanism model, Bruce suggested that the ultra-high specific capacity of LRM is also related to the H + exchange mechanism. [11] They selected Li2MnO3 material and through XRD, Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), and thermogravimetric analysismass spectrometry (TGA-MS) tests, discovered that the decomposition of the electrolyte generated H + during charging at 55 ° C, and H + was exchanged with Li + to form Li 2-x HxMnO3. The presence of H + transforms the lattice structure from O3 stacking to P3 stacking, and the formation of O ─ H ─ O bonding was more favorable for structural stabilization. During discharge, H + detaches from the lattice, and Li + re-embeds into the lattice. The H + -Li + proton exchange process is more pronounced at 55 ° C, whereas the loss of lattice oxygen occurs preferentially at 30 ° C. As Li + further detaches, the H + -Li + proton exchange process

www.advancedsciencenews.com www.advmat.de

Figure 3. Mechanism of high capacity generation of LRM cathode materials. a) Mechanism with reactions on the surface of the active material Li 1.2 Co 0.13 Ni 0.13 Mn0.54 O 2 composite electrode. Reproduced with permission. [30] Copyright 2011, American Chemical Society. b) Schematic representation of processes occurring at the electrode/ electrolyte interface. Reproduced with permission. [ 11] Copyright 2003, American Chemical Society. c) Energy and density of states schematic and O -/O 2 -electrode pair redox coupling positions. Reproduced with permission. [38] Copyright 2016, Springer Nature. d) E/uniFB00ect of Li-O-Li configurations on the electronic states of O ions in Li 2 MnO3. Reproduced with permission. [39] Copyright 2016, Springer Nature. e) Mn 4 + to Mn 7 + oxidation process and the oxidation of O 2 -to form peroxyl radicals or oxygen molecules. Reproduced with permission. [46] Copyright 2019, Springer Nature.

occurs, as shown in Figure 3b. Additionally, they investigated the charge/discharge behavior of Li x [Mn1-y Li y ]O 2 , (y ≤ 0.2) and Li[Ni x Li 1/3-2x/3 Mn2/3-x/3 ]O 2 (0 ≤ x ≤ 0.5). The results showed that the oxygen loss and H + -Li + exchange mechanisms are strongly influenced by temperature. [11] Since both mechanisms can coexist, further exploration of the origin of the high capacity of LRM cathode materials is necessary.

## 3.3. Anion Redox Mechanism

The anionic redox mechanism is currently the most widely accepted perspective in the scientific community. This mechanism refers to the reversible transformation between divalent O 2 -and higher-valent oxygen species (e.g., O -or O 2 ), which contributes additional capacity. [ 31] A substantial body of evidence now supports this mechanism. In 2009, Koyama et al. [32] discussed the redox mechanism of Li 2 MnO3 using first-principles calculations with density functional theory (DFT). They found that the Mn ions maintain a charge state of Mn 4 + , with charge compensation achieved through the oxidation of lattice oxygen. Koga et al. [ 33] investigated the structural changes and electrochemical properties of Li 1.20 Mn0.54 Co0.13 Ni 0.13 O2 during charging and discharging, revealing that the oxidation-reduction of the lattice O in the bulk phase is reversible, whereas the oxidized surface oxygen escapes in the form of O 2 , leading to irreversible loss. Additionally, electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy detected the presence of peroxide-like substances produced during charging, corroborated by O 1s XPS techniques. [34] Direct evidence for the formation and disappearance of O --O -bonds (O ─ Odimers) was also detected by in situ XRD and Raman spectroscopy. [35] Subsequently, Tarascon et al. [ 36] used TEM combined with ND to observe for the first time the presence of similar O ─ O dimers in Li 2 IrO 3 materials, further confirming the feasibility of the anionic redox mechanism.

However, considerable debate remains regarding the nature of oxygen species in the charged state. Some researchers argue that oxidized oxygen species do not exist as O ─ O dimers but may instead be stabilized as electron holes on O 2 -, O2 molecules or through oxygen /u1D70B -redox activity. [ 37] In 2016, P.

www.advancedsciencenews.com

Bruce and G. Ceder independently proposed the localized oxygen hole O 2 -model. Bruce et al. [38] investigated this by techniques such as in situ mass spectrometry using 18 O-labeled Li 1.2 [Ni 0.13 2 + Co0.13 3 + Mn0.54 4 + ]O 2 materials and found that some of the lattice oxygen was dislodged from the structure during charging, although no release of O 2 was detected. A combination of characterization tools such as XAS, XANES, and Raman spectroscopy revealed that the loss of lattice oxygen is compensated for by charge compensation through localized electron-hole formation rather than the true formation of O 2 2 -(with an OO bond length of 1.45 Å). True O 2 2 -species do not appear to form upon oxidation in these 3d transition metal oxides. During charging, localized electron holes form on Mn 4 + and Li + coordinated oxygen ions. The O-(Mn 4 + /Li + ) interaction is more ionic than the O-(Ni 4 + /Co 4 + ) interaction, which is consistent with localized holes on the Mn 4 + /Li + coordinated oxygen. The same ionic interactions place localized oxygen holes near the top of the oxygen valence band, as shown in Figure 3c. Understanding the nature of the electronic hole states on oxygen, particularly their localization, helps explain the ease with which oxygen can be released from the lattice. Ceder et al. [ 39] revealed the structure and origin of the oxygen redox activity from both chemical and structural perspectives of LRM cathode materials. Through DFT, they systematically calculated and analyzed the density of states (DOS) and charge/spin densities around oxygen ions in various local environments. The results indicated that the oxygen redox activity in lithium-excess layered and disordered materials arises from the extraction of unstable electrons from the unhybridized O 2p state in a specific Li-O-Li configuration, and is therefore independent of any hybridized TM-O state, as shown in Figure 3d.

Recently, P. Bruce [40] proposed a molecular O 2 model based on techniques such as resonant inelastic X-ray scattering (RIXS). By comparing two related intercalation cathode materials, Na 0.75 [Li 0.25 Mn0.75 ]O 2 and Na 0.6 [Li 0.2 Mn0.8 ]O 2 , the study indicated that the voltage hysteresis during the first cycle is closely linked to the superstructure of the cathode materials, particularly the local arrangement of lithium and transition metal ions within the transition metal layers. In Na 0.75 [Li 0.25 Mn0.75 ]O 2 , the honeycomb superstructure is disrupted during charging due to the formation of O 2 molecules within the solid. Although O 2 molecules reform into O 2 -during discharge, Mn ions migrate, altering the coordination around O 2 -and resulting in a lower discharge voltage. In contrast, the band-like superstructure in Na0.6 [Li 0.2 Mn0.8 ]O 2 suppresses the disordered migration of Mn, preventing the formation of O 2 , which reduces voltage hysteresis and stabilizes the electronic holes on O 2 -. The research suggests that forming a band-like superstructure can mitigate voltage hysteresis in redox cathodes. Additionally, P. Bruce [ 41] proposed a unified model that addresses various theoretical frameworks of oxygen redox, elucidating the process by which O 2 -is oxidized to form O 2 , most of which is trapped within the material while some are released from the surface. This model extends the known mechanisms of surface O 2 formation and release to the material's interior, detailing how 'trapped' O 2 molecules can be reversibly reduced and oxidized within the electrode. Furthermore, high-resolution RIXS experiments revealed that in typical Li-rich ruthenates and iridates (such as Li 2 RuO3, Li 2 Ru0.5 Sn0.5 O3, and Li 2 Ir 0.5 Sn0.5 O3), molecular O 2 is generated during the oxidation

www.advmat.de of O 2 -. [ 42] These results indicate that O 2 generation occurs during redox reactions in 3d, 4d, and 5d transition metal oxides, even in 4d and 5d compounds with higher covalency. The RIXS and XAS results for Li 2 IrO 3 suggest that the charge compensation mechanism is primarily associated with iridium redox, achieving oxidation states of + 5 or higher without evidence of O ─ O dimerization. Hu et al. [ 37] e/uniFB00ectively observed the generation of molecular oxygen using low-temperature EPR and proposed new pathways for the formation of molecular oxygen and (O 2 ) n -, establishing an important foundation for controlling oxygen reactions and enhancing battery performance. While some evidence for the existence of oxygen species has emerged, considerable debate remains. The types of O ─ O dimers (including peroxo-like species (O 2 ) m -(m &gt; 1), [ 43] true peroxide (O 2 ) 2 -, [ 38] superoxide-like species (O 2 ) -, [ 44] transition metal (TM)-(O 2 ) n -with /u1D70B bonds [45] ), as well as the pathways for molecular oxygen and (O 2 ) n -formation remain unclear. Future research will require more advanced characterization techniques and methodologies for in-depth investigation.

## 3.4. Mn Oxidation Mechanism

In the early stages, researchers believed that Li 2 MnO3 was nonelectrochemically active until 1999 when Gopukumar et al. [ 10] discovered its electrochemical activity. They prepared button batteries using Li 2 MnO3 as the positive electrode and lithium metal as the negative electrode, suggesting that the capacity arose from the reversible redox transition between Mn 4 + and Mn 5 + . However, this conjecture lacked su/uniFB03cient evidence, as crystal field theory indicates that Mn 4 + in an octahedral coordination environment is di/uniFB03cult to oxidize to a higher valence state. [ 11] It was not until 2019 that Radin et al. [ 46] proposed a new mechanism involving the reversible reduction reaction between Mn 4 + and Mn 7 + . Mn 4 + tends to occupy the octahedral positions, while Mn 7 + prefers the tetrahedral positions. The migration of Mn 4 + from octahedral to tetrahedral positions triggers the formation of peroxide ions or confined O 2 molecules. Subsequently, Mn 7 + is reduced to Mn 4 + and returns to the octahedral position, as shown in Figure 3e. First-principles calculations of Li-Mn-O phase diagram excitations reveal that the electrochemical behavior of Mn oxides with excess lithium is thermodynamically consistent with the oxidation of Mn from the + 4 to the + 7 oxidation state and the migration of Mn from the octahedral to the tetrahedral positions. This mechanism may explain the electrochemical behavior of lithium-excess materials in several respects, including the activation step, voltage hysteresis, and voltage fading. However, a subsequent study by Piper et al. [ 47] confirmed the absence of Mn 7 + during charging and discharging using in situ characterization techniques.

## 4. Problems of LRM Cathode Materials

Although LRM cathode materials o/uniFB00er several advantages, including high specific capacity, low cost, and favorable safety performance, they also present notable challenges. Figure 4 highlights various electrochemical performance issues of LRM cathode materials during cyclings, such as low initial coulombic

www.advancedsciencenews.com www.advmat.de

Figure 4. Problems of LRM cathode materials. a) Charge-discharge curve. Reproduced with permission. [48] Copyright 2021, Wiley-VCH. b) Cycling performance curve. Reproduced with permission. [49] Copyright 2023, Wiley-VCH. c) Rate performance curve (0.1 C, 0.2 C, 0.5 C, 1 C, 2 C, 5 C). Reproduced with permission. [50] Copyright 2023, Wiley-VCH. d) Voltage fading and hysteresis curve. Reproduced with permission. [51] Copyright 2024, Wiley-VCH.

e/uniFB03ciency (Figure 4a), rapid capacity degradation (Figure 4b), poor rate performance (Figure 4c), voltage fading and hysteresis (Figure 4d), and low compaction density. These challenges significantly hinder the practical application of LRM cathode materials.

## 4.1. Low Initial Coulombic E/uniFB03ciency

During the first charge/discharge process of LRM, the release of lithium-ions leads to an irreversible loss of lattice oxygen from the material's surface. This oxygen is partially released in the form of O 2 , and the loss of lattice oxygen results in the migration of transition metals and reduces the embedding sites for Li + , making it di/uniFB03cult for the released lithium-ions to occupy their original sites, ultimately causing an irreversible loss of capacity. Additionally, significant side reactions between the material's surface and the organic electrolyte result in the formation of by-products such as LiF and Li 2 CO3, which consume a substantial number of lithium ions, further contributing to capacity loss. The loss of lattice oxygen and the occurrence of surface-side reactions cause the discharge capacity to be significantly lower than the charge capacity, resulting in a lower ICE. The ICE of unmodified LRM cathode materials is generally below 80%. To enhance the ICE of LRM cathode materials, many researchers focus on activating the lattice oxygen in Li 2 MnO3 components or inhibiting the release of lattice oxygen. Surface pretreatment is employed to release some of the unstable lattice oxygen in advance, while doping and coating strategies are utilized to inhibit the release of this

unstable lattice oxygen, thereby reducing irreversible capacity loss.

## 4.2. Rapid Capacity Degradation

The LRM materials experience the migration of transition metals and the occurrence of surface-side reactions during the cycling process, resulting in a transformation from a layered phase to both a spinel phase and a rock salt phase. As the number of cycles increases, the surface spinel phase gradually di/uniFB00uses into the bulk phase, causing some lithium-ions to become trapped within the lattice and making them di/uniFB03cult to extract, which ultimately leads to capacity degradation. [ 52] Additionally, the generation of lattice stress results in the formation of microcracks and voids within the material, allowing the electrolyte to penetrate the bulk phase along these microcracks. This further exacerbates side reactions and accelerates capacity degradation. Consequently, the capacity degradation of LRM cathode materials arises from the interplay of multiple factors.

## 4.3. Poor Rate Performance

In LRM materials, the poor electrical conductivity of Li2MnO3 makes the Li + di/uniFB00usion kinetics slower. [ 53] Additionally, anions exhibit slower redox reactions compared to cations, contributing to the inferior rate performance of LRM materials. The surface

www.advancedsciencenews.com passivation layer formed by side reactions between the electrode material and the electrolyte accumulates on the electrode surface, impeding the di/uniFB00usion of Li + from the surface to the interior of the electrode, which further exacerbates the poor rate performance.

## 4.4. Voltage Fading

The voltage of LRM materials diminishes throughout the cycling process, which reduces the battery's specific energy and presents significant challenges to the e/uniFB00ective operation of the battery management system (BMS). The voltage fading of LRM cathode materials is associated with irreversible lattice oxygen loss, transition metal migration, and defect dislocations occurring during cycling. Nonetheless, the majority of researchers contend that the predominant cause of voltage fading is the transformation of the material from a layered structure to a spinel-like structure during cycling. [ 54,55]

## 4.5. Voltage Hysteresis

LRMcathode materials exhibit significant voltage hysteresis during the charge and discharge processes. This phenomenon refers to the substantial discrepancy between the voltage curves observed during charging and discharging, with the charging voltage being higher and the discharging voltage being lower. This voltage hysteresis adversely a/uniFB00ects energy e/uniFB03ciency and presents challenges for practical applications.

## 4.6. Low Compaction Density

Although LRM materials have a high specific capacity ( &gt; 250 mAh g -1 ), their low compaction density ( ≈ 2.6 g cm -3 ) results in a bulk energy density that does not have a significant advantage over lithium cobaltate and ternary high-nickel cathode materials. [ 15] The morphology and true density of the material primarily determine the compaction density. Currently, the precursors for preparing LRM materials are predominantly carbonate and hydroxide precursors. While the carbonate precursor is loose and porous, enabling a high specific capacity, it results in a low compaction density. In contrast, hydroxide precursors exhibit a higher compaction density than carbonate precursors; however, their specific capacity is lower due to their denser structure. Therefore, further optimization of the preparation process is necessary to enhance the compaction density of LRM cathode materials.

## 5. Degradation Mechanism

## 5.1. Structural Transformation Mechanism

While the anionic redox reaction of LRM cathode materials generates high capacity, it also induces complex structural changes that result in the continuous degradation of voltage and capacity during cycling. Consequently, elucidating the structural transformation process of LRM cathode materials during cycling is crucial for informing subsequent modification strategies.

Adv. Mater. 2025 , 37 , 2410006

www.advmat.de

Yuet al. [ 56] investigated the structural evolution of LRM layered oxides at di/uniFB00erent temperatures. Their findings indicate that after the first charge/discharge cycle, the extraction of lattice oxygen leads to phenomena such as lattice densification, transition metal migration, and element segregation, resulting in a transformation from the initial two-phase structure to a core-shell structure characterized by a distorted monoclinic LiTMO 2 core and an amorphous spinel/rock-salt shell. Simulated crystal structure models revealed that when the charging voltage increased to 4.4 V, the contrast of TM atoms in the lithium layer became more pronounced, indicating the formation of a TMO-type rocksalt structure, specifically a Li 1-xTMxO2 type structure. At this stage, TM ions aggregate on the grain surface, forming a structure close to x = 1. When the electrode material is further charged to 4.8 V (beyond the irreversible charging platform), significant changes in atomic arrangement occur on the surface. Tetrahedral and octahedral sites in the lithium layer are occupied by TM atoms, while lithium columns disappear, indicating the formation of a TM 3 O4-type spinel structure on the grain surface. However, during the first discharge, the surface primarily exhibits a substantial amount of TMO-type rock-salt structure alongside a minor amount of TM3 O 4 -type spinel structure, suggesting that the transition from TM 3O4 to TMO-type structure may be reversible ( Figure 5 a). Liu et al. [ 57] employed finite element analysis simulations to study the kinetic limitations of Li + di/uniFB00usion with varying grain sizes. Their research indicated that micronsized materials have longer Li + di/uniFB00usion distances and higher di/uniFB00usion coe/uniFB03cients, contrasting with the results for nanoparticle samples. In contrast to the nearly uniform Li + distribution in nano LRM, micron-sized LRM cathode materials exhibited greater kinetic lag in Li + di/uniFB00usion during delithiation and lithiation processes (Figure 5b). The uneven reactions during cycling resulted in significant strain within the materials, manifesting as noticeable stacking defects, leading to a clear evolution of rocksalt, spinel, and layered structures from the surface to the interior, which directly explains the poor cycling stability of micronsized LRM layered oxides. Although single-crystal LRM cathode materials exhibit higher structural stability, reduced side reactions, and voltage fading during cycling, larger particles lengthen the di/uniFB00usion paths for lithium-ions, decreasing the electrode's kinetic response and causing kinetic lag during charge and discharge processes. Additionally, uneven Li + concentration distribution within particles, along with internal strain and structural non-uniformity, makes particles more prone to capacity degradation and voltage fading over extended cycling. Therefore, it is essential to appropriately control the size of single-crystal particles and develop submicron-sized single-crystal LRM cathode materials.

Khalil Amine et al. [58] investigated the relationship between various electrochemical reactions and lattice strain through multi-scale characterization and DFT calculations, emphasizing the critical role of lattice strain in voltage fading and material degradation. They revealed that the uneven electrochemical activity in di/uniFB00erent regions, such as LiTMO 2 and Li 2 MnO3, underpins lattice strain. The activation of LiTMO 2 increases local electrostatic repulsion and accelerates the lattice expansion, while the inactivity of oxygen oxidation reactions in the Li 2 MnO3 region restricts lattice expansion, resulting in significant nanoscale strain and lattice displacement. Strain initiates at the surface

www.advmat.de

Figure 5. Structural transformation mechanism of LRM cathode materials. a) Schematics of the crystal surface structure evolution during the first cycle. Reproduced with permission. [56] Copyright 2018, American Chemical Society. b) Synergistic e/uniFB00ect of di/uniFB00usion coe/uniFB03cients and di/uniFB00usion distances, along with finite element analysis results for Li + concentration distribution during charging and discharging states. Reproduced with permission. [57] Copyright 2022, Elsevier. c) Illustrates the correlation between strain generation, O release, and transition metal migration. Reproduced with permission. [58] Copyright 2022, Springer Nature. d) Depicts the correlation between rotational stacking faults and planar cracking in layered structures. Reproduced with permission. [59] Copyright 2024, Springer Nature.

and gradually extends to the interior during delithiation. When the LiTMO2 region approaches complete delithiation, the strain reaches its peak. This extreme strain destabilizes the material's structure, triggering the decomposition of Li 2 MnO3 and oxygen release. Upon activation of the Li 2 MnO3 region, the previously applied lattice expansion strain is naturally released, leading to synchronous relaxation of tensile strain. Simultaneously, oxygen release lowers the energy barrier for transition metal migration, resulting in irreversible phase transitions. This strain evolution accumulates over prolonged electrochemical cycling, ultimately leading to structural degradation and a rapid decline in electrochemical performance (Figure 5c). Kisuk Kang et al. [59] first revealed the presence of rotational stacking faults (RSFs) in layered lithium transition metal oxides, which originate from specific stacking sequences at di/uniFB00erent angles. RSFs play a significant role in structural and electrochemical stability. Using DFT calculations, they examined three representative model structures: a defect-free unit (0 ° ), a multi-unit structure with 120 ° RSFs, and a multi-unit structure with 240 ° RSFs. In the model without RSFs, the stacking sequence along the [100] direction remains unchanged during charging, demonstrating good structural stability (Figure 5d). With the introduction of RSFs, the TM layers

at the interfaces can slide independently, shortening the bond lengths between oxidized oxygen atoms during charging. This independent sliding causes structural changes, highlighting the impact of RSFs on layered structures. Calculation results indicate that the dimerization of oxygen species significantly reduces the energy barrier for TM migration, with the O ─ O the bond length of dimerized oxygen compressing to &lt; 1.34 Å, even shorter than the bond length of superoxides, further illustrating the influence of RSFs on oxygen migration and structural stability. Experimental and computational results demonstrate that RSFs facilitate the dimerization of oxygen and the migration of transition metals, processes that occur concurrently with the nucleation and propagation of microcracks, exacerbating electrochemical mechanical degradation. By eliminating defects through thermal treatment, the formation of RSFs can be suppressed, reducing microcrack formation and thereby enhancing the cycling stability of LRM. Since the structural transformations of LRM cathode materials during cycling are accompanied by lithium-ion insertion and extraction, transition metal migration, lattice oxygen release, rotational stacking faults, stress and phase changes, as well as electrochemical reaction non-uniformity, a deeper understanding of these mechanisms can provide important guidance for the

www.advmat.de

Figure 6. Voltage fading mechanism of LRM cathode materials. a) NMR spectra of 6 Li MAS and the relationship between hysteresis and voltage fading at di/uniFB00erent cycles. Reproduced under terms of the CC-BY license. [55] Copyright 2017, Assat et al., published by Springer Nature. b) Overview of the charge compensation mechanism and electrochemical kinetics of activated Li 1.2 Ni 0.13 Mn0.54 Co 0.13 O2 . Reproduced under terms of the CC-BY license. [62] Copyright 2015, Dogan et al., published by American Chemical Society. c-f) Mechanism of voltage fading in Li 1.2 Ni 0.13 Mn0.54 Co 0.13 O2 cathode materials. Reproduced under terms of the CC-BY license. [63] Copyright 2024, Marie et al., published by Springer Nature.

optimization and performance enhancement of LRM cathode materials.

## 5.2. Voltage Fading Mechanism

Voltage fading results in a continuous decrease in the battery's energy density. However, a consensus on its cause remains elusive. Researchers associate voltage fading with lattice oxygen loss, [ 55,60] migration of transition metals, [61] and cycling-induced dislocations and defects. [54] Nonetheless, elucidating their interrelation and its e/uniFB00ect on voltage fading is highly complex. The prevailing view among researchers is that the irreversible phase transition caused by transition metal migration directly leads to voltage fading. This irreversible structural phase transition enhances the material's stability and impedes the reversion of redox pairs to their original states.

Tarascon et al. [ 55] investigated the oxygen redox mechanism of LRM oxides by synchrotron spectroscopy and elucidated the anion/cation charge compensation mechanism. At lower voltages, the contribution of Mn 3 + /4 + is small (blue shaded area), and fur- ther charging up to ≈ 4.1 V (grey shaded area) is primarily attributed to cation (Ni 2 + /3 + /4 + and Co 3 + /4 + ) and anion oxidation reactions. When the voltage is charged to 4.8 V (red shaded area), the capacity contribution mainly arises from the anion oxidation reactions, generating corresponding discharge capacity at high voltages (green shaded area) and low voltages (red shaded area), as shown in Figure 6 a. Dogan et al. [ 62] utilized 6 Li magic angle spin (MAS) NMR spectroscopy to investigate the electrochemical behavior of 0.5 6 Li 2 MnO3-0.5 6 LiMn 0.5 Ni 0.5O2 and elucidated the relationship between the material's structure and the electrochemical hysteresis and voltage fading. They believe that due to the di/uniFB00erent local environments of lithium atoms after varying numbers of cycles, the resulting local structural changes lead to a gradual decline in the average voltage, resulting in lower lithium site energy. NMR indicates that the peak width gradually becomes more significant with the increase in the number of cycles, which is mainly due to the voltage fading caused by the aberration produced by the coherent strain induced on the lithium sites. A strong correlation between voltage fading and hysteresis was found by directly monitoring the local structural changes occurring in the LRM transition metal oxide electrode, as shown in Figure 6b. This process causes cation redox

www.advancedsciencenews.com reactions at high voltage to gradually shift to lower voltage, resulting in voltage fading. P. Bruce et al. [ 63] investigated the origins of captured O 2 and voltage fading using the cathode material Li 1.2 Ni 0.13 Co0.13 Mn0.54 O2. The study revealed that during the first charge, the oxidation of O 2 -ions leads to the formation of trapped O2 molecules, which can be reduced back to O 2 -during subsequent discharge. Figure 6c-f elucidates the main mechanisms of voltage fading during cycling. In the second cycle, within a Li-rich environment, O 2 -ions form trapped O 2 molecules within small vacancy clusters through a reversible O-redox process. These O 2 molecules are reduced back to O 2 -during discharge and reinserted into the lattice. The formed O 2 -regions exhibit antiferromagnetic properties, which may a/uniFB00ect the electrochemical behavior of the electrode. As cycling progresses, the migration of transition metals leads to the aggregation and coarsening of clusters, further generating additional O 2 and resulting in larger voids. The larger voids and high-density structures weaken and crack the material, releasing O 2 from open or partially open voids. With the formation of Li-O 2 -regions, these areas exhibit insulating properties on the walls of the voids, complicating the reduction of O 2 in the larger voids. The primary causes for voltage fading are the reduced reversibility of the O 2 -/O2 reduction process and the loss of O 2 . As cycling continues, the closure of voids increases, rendering the trapped O 2 electrochemically inactive. Simultaneously, the size and density of the voids lead to materials cracking, forming open voids, and releasing O 2 . It is shown that the thermodynamic driving force for O 2 formation is fundamentally linked to the migration of transition metals, the formation of voids, and the resulting voltage fading.

The voltage fading mechanism of LRM cathode materials involves complex multiscale interactions, emphasizing the intricate relationship between the material's microstructure (such as lattice strain and vacancy formation) and its macroscopic electrochemical behavior. These multiscale interactions complicate quantitative analysis and modeling. Throughout cycling, the material's structure and electrochemical properties continuously evolve, and existing characterization techniques may not adequately capture these dynamic processes in real-time, limiting a deeper understanding of the voltage fading mechanism. Furthermore, while it is known that oxygen release significantly impacts voltage fading, the specific release mechanisms, kinetics, and methods to suppress oxygen release still require further exploration. Future research could employ multiscale simulation methods combined with experimental data to investigate the relationship between microstructural changes and electrochemical performance in greater depth. Additionally, developing and applying higher-resolution characterization techniques (such as in situ electron microscopy and synchrotron radiation) can facilitate real-time observation of material changes during cycling, providing more dynamic information. It is also crucial to strengthen fundamental research on redox mechanisms in LRM cathode materials, especially focusing on the fundamental reaction kinetics involved in electron and ion transport.

## 5.3. Voltage Hysteresis Mechanism

The phenomenon of voltage hysteresis refers to the significant voltage di/uniFB00erence observed between the charging and discharg-

www.advmat.de ing curves during the operation of lithium-ion batteries, which results in a distinct voltage hysteresis loop. This phenomenon not only a/uniFB00ects the energy utilization e/uniFB03ciency of the battery but also impacts its cycle life and overall performance. Voltage hysteresis is influenced by various factors, including phase transitions and structural rearrangements of the electrode materials during charge and discharge, which can alter lithium-ion migration pathways and lead to hysteresis. Interfacial reactions between the electrode and electrolyte may increase resistance, thereby contributing to voltage hysteresis. Furthermore, voltage hysteresis may also be related to the migration of transition metals and the release of lattice oxygen.

In early research, the redox reactions of lattice oxygen were generally believed to occur only at high voltages, leading to the conclusion that voltage hysteresis was unrelated to the presence of lattice oxygen. However, the Assat team [ 61] proposed that the redox reactions of lattice oxygen are not confined to high voltage and can also take place under low voltage conditions. They subsequently confirmed through studies on Li 1.2 Ru0.75 Sn0.25O3 that the generation of voltage hysteresis is closely related to the redox reactions of oxygen. [64] Further research indicated that the primary cause of voltage hysteresis is the reversible O-redox reaction occurring at both high voltage ( ≈ 4.0 V) and low voltage ( &gt; 3.6 V). P. Bruce [65] investigated the voltage hysteresis phenomenon in Li1.2 Ni 0.13 Co0.13 Mn0.54O2 cathode materials using techniques such as RIXS and 17 O magic-angle spinning NMR spectroscopy. During the charging process of Li-rich compounds, O2 forms throughout the bulk rather than just at the surface. Although surface-generated O 2 may be lost, this loss facilitates the reconstruction of the surface into a rock-salt/spinel structure, which suppresses further loss. O 2 in the bulk phase becomes trapped in vacancy clusters and can be reduced to O 2 -during discharge. However, the ordered-disordered transition accompanying O 2 formation is irreversible, altering the coordination environment of oxygen. During discharge, Li + occupy the positions of TM ions, resulting in O 2 -being surrounded solely by Li + , which raises the energy level and causes the discharge voltage to be lower than the charge voltage, thereby manifesting the voltage hysteresis phenomenon ( Figure 7 a-d). Subsequently, they proposed an oxygen oxidation model and further elucidated the primary causes of voltage hysteresis. [ 41] During the first charge, Li-rich compounds undergo an irreversible ordered-disordered transition, leading to the disruption of the honeycomb structure. This structural change prevents the material from reverting to its original ordered state in subsequent cycles. Additionally, the coordination environment of O 2 -shifts from the original O-Li 4 Mn2 to O-Li 6 . As the interaction between Li + and O2 -becomes increasingly ionic, the energy of the O 2p state increases, resulting in the first discharge voltage being lower than the first charge voltage, thereby creating the voltage hysteresis phenomenon.

Xia et al. [ 66] investigated the significant influence of di/uniFB00erent electronic spin states on the oxidation potential of oxide anions using ND, in situ XRD, and EPR spectroscopy, thereby exploring the relationship between voltage hysteresis and electronic structure. The coordination of metal ions such as Mn 4 + , Ti 4 + , and low-spin Ru 4 + with O 2 -corresponds to the initial stages of charge transfer, the presence of high-spin ions like Ni 3 + , Ru 4 + , and Fe 4 + indicates significant changes in the oxidation states, and electronic configurations of transition metals during the charge

www.advmat.de

Figure 7. Voltage hysteresis mechanism of LRM cathode materials. a-d) Mechanism of voltage hysteresis in the first cycle of Li-rich cathode materials. Reproduced with permission. [65] Copyright 2020, Springer Nature. e) Charge transfer mechanism related to the redox processes in Li-rich cathode materials. Reproduced with permission. [66] Copyright 2023, American Chemical Society. f,g) Structure-function relationships between microstructure, electronic structure, and voltage hysteresis. Reproduced with permission. [67] Copyright 2024, Wiley-VCH.

transfer process, thereby a/uniFB00ecting the performance of the cathode material. During the charging and discharging processes, the redox reactions of transition metal ions and the participation of O 2 -lead to the reorganization of the crystal structure and adjustments of energy levels. When the electronic structure of metal ions changes, particularly if the transition between highspin and low-spin states does not quickly reach equilibrium, it results in voltage hysteresis during the charge-discharge process (Figure 7e). Guo et al. [ 67] through studies on the redox behavior of oxygen under di/uniFB00erent (de)lithiation states, revealed the fundamental reasons for voltage hysteresis. They suggested that the arrangement of atoms in the microstructure directly influences the coordination environment of TM ions and oxide ions. For example, in CR 82 (Li2MnO3 ratio of 0.8), the TM layer exhibits an ordered TM-TM-Li arrangement, forming a stable 4Li-O-2TM configuration. This ordered structure helps reduce voltage hysteresis. In contrast, in CR 28 (Li 2 MnO3 ratio of 0.2), a disordered TM/Li-TM/Li-TM/Li arrangement occurs, with some TM ions occupying the Li 2b positions, resulting in a 3TM/Li-O-3Li coordination mode (Figure 7f,g). This disordered arrangement may hinder electron transport, thereby increasing voltage hysteresis. The microstructure determines the reaction kinetics within the battery. Ordered structures generally provide more e/uniFB00ective pathways for ion and electron conduction, while disordered structures can impede ion migration and electron transfer, leading to an increase in voltage hysteresis.

Voltage hysteresis is a key challenge in lithium-ion batteries, particularly pronounced in high-energy-density materials like LRM compounds. Its generation mechanism is complex, involv- ing multiple interactions such as lithium-ion migration, rearrangement of transition metals, redox reactions of lattice oxygen, and interfacial e/uniFB00ects. Although significant progress has been made in elucidating the mechanisms behind voltage hysteresis, further reducing this phenomenon remains a substantial challenge. Future research, by integrating material design, interface optimization, dynamic characterization, and theoretical simulations, holds promise for achieving greater breakthroughs in addressing voltage hysteresis, thereby advancing lithium-ion battery technology toward more e/uniFB03cient and stable solutions.

## 6. Approaches and Strategies

Researchers have dedicated considerable e/uniFB00orts to enhancing the electrochemical performance of Li-rich layered transition metal oxide materials. Their investigations have focused on modifications aimed at improving the ICE, specific capacity, cycling stability, and voltage stability of LRM materials. Currently, prominent strategies for modifying LRM materials include morphology and structure design, doping, coating, surface engineering, multimodification approaches, and the adjustment of binder and electrolyte properties.

## 6.1. Morphology and Structural Design

The microscopic morphology and structure of LRM materials are critical to their electrochemical performance. Peng et al. [ 68] have

www.advancedsciencenews.com summarized information on various microscopic morphologies and structures of these materials, including nanorods, nanoparticles, microsheets, and microspheres. Special morphology designs enhance the stability of the materials, improve the di/uniFB00usion rate of Li + , and reduce side reactions between the material surfaces and the electrolyte. Xie et al. [ 69] synthesized a bayberry-like microsphere LRM material using co-precipitation combined with the high-temperature solid-state method. This material exhibits a bayberry-like structure with an internal spherical core and an external shell made up of radially oriented nanorods, providing intrinsic capabilities for rapid electron and ion transport. These features are conducive to improving the kinetics of electrochemical reactions during cycling, as shown in Figure 8 a. The material demonstrates excellent high-rate long-cycle stability, retaining 91.2% of its capacity after 500 cycles at 1 C and 81.3% after 1000 cycles at 5 C. Wang et al. [ 70] synthesized single-crystal LRM cathode materials encapsulated in a spinel phase with a particle size of ≈ 500 nm by a simple molten-salt-assisted hightemperature solid-state method, as shown in Figure 8b. The results revealed that the surface coating of the single-crystal LRM material had a thickness of ≈ 5 nm. The primary constituent of the coating was spinel Li 4 Mn5O12, which features a 3D Li + channel structure that e/uniFB00ectively enhances Li + di/uniFB00usion kinetics. The synergistic e/uniFB00ect of single-crystal particles and the surface spinel coating e/uniFB00ectively mitigated particle fragmentation during the cycling process and enhanced the Li + di/uniFB00usion rate. The material achieved a discharge capacity of 296.3 mAh g -1 at 0.1 C (1 C = 250 mAh g -1 ) and a capacity retention of 97.4% after 300 cycles at 1 C. Wu et al. [ 71] synthesized layered quasi-sphere materials using co-precipitation and a high-temperature solid-state method. The surface of this material consisted of {010} planes, which selfassembled from oriented Li 1.2 Ni 0.2 Mn0.6O2 nanoplates, as shown in Figure 8c. This unique hierarchical structure combines the advantages of both hierarchical structure and {010} electrochemical planes, enhancing ion and electron transport e/uniFB03ciencies and facilitating rapid Li + transport. The material demonstrated discharge capacities of 230.8, 216.5, 188.2, 163.2, and 141.7 mAh g -1 at rates of 1 C (1 C = 250 mAh g -1 ), 2, 5, 10, and 20 C, respectively, indicating superior rate performance. Conventional LRM cathode materials typically have an O3 configuration with an ABCABC oxygen stacking order, in which transition metal ions irreversibly migrate to occupy lithium-ion sites at high voltages, leading to voltage fading. [ 72,73] Researchers have found that LRM materials with O2 configuration with ABCBA oxygen stacking order show less voltage fading. [ 74-79] Due to the unique coordination environment of the O2-type structure, transition metal migration is hindered by electrostatic solid repulsive forces between the coplanar TMO 6 octahedra, resulting in reduced voltage fading and improved structural reversibility. [ 75]

However, the metastable nature of the O2 configuration leads to poor capacity retention. Therefore, Chen et al. [ 80] designed a novel O2/O3 hybrid structure that combines the advantages of both O2 and O3 configurations, as shown in Figure 8d. This hybrid structure exhibits excellent reversible structural changes, minimal volume fluctuations, and reduced oxygen loss during electrochemical processes. The first discharge capacity of the O2/O3 hybrid structure was 302.07 mAh g -1 , which is much better than that of O2 and O3 configurations (279.18 mAh g -1 and 271.03 mAh g -1 , respectively). After 100 cycles at 0.5 C, the ca-

www.advmat.de pacity of the hybrid O2/O3 configuration was 228.63 mAh g -1 with a capacity retention of 93.39%. Xia et al. [ 77] synthesized O2type LRM materials with a monolayered Li2MnO3 superstructure by using high-temperature solid-state and molten-salt methods. These materials exhibited stable anionic redox reactions and highly reversible charge-discharge cycles. XRD refinement results revealed that the material contains 68.176% of the O2 configuration Li 2 MnO3 phase, as shown in Figure 8e. The chargedischarge curves show that the O2-type LRM material with a monolayer Li 2 MnO3 superstructure achieved a discharge-specific capacity of up to 400 mAh g -1 (energy density: 1360 Wh kg -1 ), as shown in Figure 8f.

## 6.2. Doping

To enhance the stability and cycling performance of LRM cathode materials, researchers commonly employ doping as a modification strategy. The introduction of inert ions into the material lattice enhances structural stability, suppresses lattice oxygen release, and significantly enhances cycling performance while reducing voltage fading. Doping strategies can be classified into cation and anion doping. Cation doping involves the substitution of ions at lithium site (Na + , [ 81-83] K + , [ 84,85] Cs + , [ 86] etc.) and TM site doping (Mg 2 + , [ 87,88] Al 3 + , [ 89] Cr 3 + , [ 90] Ti 4 + , [ 91] Ru 4 + , [ 92] etc.), while anion doping includes low-valent anion doping (F -, [ 93] Cl -, [ 94] S 2 -, [ 95] etc.) and polyanion doping (PO 4 3 -, [ 96] BO3 3 -, [ 97] SO4 2 -, [ 98] etc.). Table 1 provides a summary of the elements previously reported as dopants in LRM materials, along with their corresponding e/uniFB00ects on electrochemical properties.

The most commonly used elements for doping at Li sites are Na + and K + , as they belong to the same group as lithium and possess similar electronic structures and electrochemical properties. Appropriate Na + doping can enhance the Li + transport rate, thereby improving the cycling performance of LRM materials. Guo et al. [ 82] successfully achieved surface gradient doping of Na + using a mixed sintering method of LRM material with molten salt NaCl. The gradient doping of Na + on the LRM material surface induced numerous defects, which created a pinning e/uniFB00ect and enhanced the stability of the material. Additionally, since Na + has a larger ionic radius than Li + , it facilitates Li + de-intercalation within the layered structure, as shown in Figure 9 a. Li et al. [ 85] successfully synthesized K + doping Li 1.20 Mn0.54 Co0.13 Ni 0.13O2 materials using hydrothermal and high-temperature solid-state methods. Their findings revealed that K + doping inhibited the formation of triple vacancies and the migration of Mn ions within the lithium layer, thereby preventing the formation of a spinel phase. The capacity retention of the K + doping sample improved from 81% to 91% after 30 cycles compared to the undoped sample, as shown in Figure 9b. Dong et al. [ 103] successfully synthesized Nb doping LRM cathode materials using solvothermal and high-temperature solid-state synthesis methods. DFT calculations indicated that Nb doping enhances the crystal structure's stability and accelerates lithiumion di/uniFB00usion, owing to the stronger N ─ O bond and the reduced lithium-ion migration barrier. While the migration energy barrier of lithium-ions in the pristine structure is 0.56 eV, Nb doping reduces this barrier in the TM layer to 0.42 eV, as shown in Figure 9c.

www.advmat.de

Figure 8. Morphology and structure design of LRM cathode materials. a) SEM image of bayberry-like secondary particles. Reproduced with permission. [69] Copyright 2023, Wiley-VCH. b) Schematic and SEM image of single-crystal LRM synthesis. Reproduced with permission. [70] Copyright 2023, Elsevier. c) Schematic diagram of the layered structure of LRM cathode material. Reproduced with permission. [71] Copyright 2014, Wiley-VCH. d) XRD and STEM images of the O2/O3 structure. Reproduced with permission. [80] Copyright 2022, Elsevier. e) XRD refinement of the Li 1.25 Co 0.25 Mn0.50 O 2 material. f) Charging and discharging curves of the O2-type Li-rich cathode material. e,f). Reproduced with permission. [77] Copyright 2018, Wiley-VCH.

www.advmat.de

Table 1. Summary of previously reported elements doping in LRM materials and the corresponding electrochemical properties.

| LRM cathode materials chemical formula       | Doping element   | Voltage   | First discharge capacity [mAh g - 1 /C]   | ICE     | Capacity retention [mAh g - 1 /cycles/C]   | Refs.   |
|----------------------------------------------|------------------|-----------|-------------------------------------------|---------|--------------------------------------------|---------|
| Li 1.2 Ni 0.13 Co 0.13 Mn 0.54 O 2           | Cs +             | 2.0-4.8 V | 281                                       | 81%     | 195/100/0.5                                | [86]    |
| 0.5Li 2 MnO 3 .0.5LiNi 1/3 Co 1/3 Mn 1/3 O 2 | Na +             | 2.0-4.7 V | 286                                       | 87%     | 233/100/0.2                                | [82]    |
| Li 1.2 Mn 0.54 Ni 0.13 Co 0.13 O 2           | K +              | 2.0-4.8 V | 315                                       | 77%     | 286.7/30/0.1                               | [85]    |
| Li 1.2 Ni 0.2 Mn 0.6 O 2                     | Mg 2 +           | 2.0-4.8 V | 140.6                                     | ≈ 62.5% | 226.5/60/0.1                               | [87]    |
| Li 1.2 Ni 0.16 Mn 0.56 Co 0.08 O 2           | Al 3 +           | 2.0-4.6 V | 215                                       | 67.2%   | 206.4/100/0.1                              | [89]    |
| Li 1.2 Mn 0.54 Ni 0.13 Co 0.13 O 2           | Cr 3 +           | 2.0-4.6 V | 216                                       | 78.3%   | 170/133/0.2                                | [90]    |
| Li 1.2 Ni 0.2 Mn 0.6 O 2                     | Fe 3 +           | 2.0-4.8 V | 232                                       | 77.5%   | 161.5/200/1.0                              | [99]    |
| Li 1.2 Mn 0.54 Ni 0.13 Co 0.13 O 2           | La 3 +           | 2.0-4.6 V | ≈ 287                                     | ≈ 88%   | 267.5/100/1.0                              | [100]   |
| Li 1.18 Mn 0.6 Ni 0.21 O 2                   | Sn 4 +           | 2.0-4.8 V | 221                                       | 76%     | 125/100/0.5                                | [101]   |
| Li 1.2 Mn 0.54 Ni 0.13 Co 0.13 O 2           | Ti 4 +           | 2.0-4.8 V | 320                                       | ≈ 75%   | 229/300/0.2                                | [91]    |
| Li 1.2 Mn 0.54 Ni 0.13 Co 0.13 O 2           | Ru 4 +           | 2.0-4.8 V | 277                                       | ≈ 75%   | 88/700/2.0                                 | [92]    |
| Li 1.2 Mn 0.54 Ni 0.13 Co 0.13 O 2           | Zr 4 +           | 2.5-4.6 V | 248                                       | ≈ 79%   | 133.6/100/1.0                              | [102]   |
| Li 1.2 Ni 0.13 Co 0.13 Mn 0.54 O 2           | Nb 5 +           | 2.0-4.8 V | 287.5                                     | 86.94%  | 283.2/300/0.2                              | [103]   |
| Li 1.13 Ni 0.3 Mn 0.57 O 2                   | W 6 +            | 2.0-4.8 V | 284                                       | 81%     | 188/100/1.0                                | [104]   |
| Li(Li 1/6 Ni 1/6 Co 1/6 Mn 1/2 )O 2          | F -              | 2.0-4.8 V | ≈ 268                                     | 92.9%   | 188/40/1.0                                 | [93]    |
| Li 1.2 Ni 0.13 Co 0.13 Mn 0.54 O 2           | S 2 -            | 2.0-4.8 V | 307.8                                     | ≈ 92%   | 232/200/1.0                                | [95]    |
| Li(Li 0.17 Ni 0.20 Co 0.05 Mn 0.58 )O 2      | SO 4 2 -         | 2.0-4.8 V | 261.2                                     | 83.2%   | 200.4/400/0.1                              | [98]    |
| Li 1.17 Mn 0.5 Ni 0.17 Co 0.16 O 2           | PO 4 3 -         | 2.0-4.8 V | 300                                       | 86%     | 199.5/100/1.0                              | [96]    |
| Li(Li 0.17 Ni 0.20 Co 0.05 Mn 0.58 )O 2      | SiO 4 4 -        | 2.0-4.8 V | 282.2                                     | 83.5%   | 215.4/400/0.1                              | [98]    |
| Li 1.2 Mn 0.54 Ni 0.13 Co 0.13 O 2           | BO 4 5 -         | 2.0-4.8 V | ≈ 258                                     | ≈ 90%   | 190/100/0.2                                | [105]   |
| Li 1.2 Mn 0.54 Ni 0.13 Co 0.13 O 2           | Na + /F -        | 2.0-4.8 V | 291.3                                     | 82.2%   | 219.5/300/1.0                              | [106]   |
| Li 1.2 Ni 0.13 Co 0.13 Mn 0.54 O 2           | Na + /PO 4 3     | 2.0-4.8 V | ≈ 256                                     | 85.69%  | 176.5/100/1.0                              | [107]   |
| Li 1.165 Mn 0.495 Ni 0.165 Co 0.165 O 2      | K + /S 2 -       | 2.0-4.8 V | 295                                       | 86.5%   | 129/450/1.0                                | [108]   |
| Li 1.2 Ni 0.2 Mn 0.6 O 2                     | Cd 2 + /S 2 -    | 2.0-4.8 V | 286.5                                     | 87.2%   | 243.4/80/0.1                               | [109]   |
| Li 1.2 Ni 0.13 Co 0.13 Mn 0.54 O 2           | Al 3 + /F -      | 2.0-4.8 V | ≈ 298                                     | ≈ 82%   | 217/150/0.5                                | [110]   |
| Li 1.2 Mn 0.54 Ni 0.13 Co 0.13 O 2           | Nb 5 + /F -      | 2.0-4.8 V | 269.3                                     | 79.84%  | 221.5/200/1.0                              | [111]   |

Anion doping primarily involves the incorporation of F -ions and polyanions, leveraging their stronger bonding capability with cations to prevent lattice oxygen loss and transition metal migration, thereby enhancing stability. Kong et al. [ 93] successfully synthesized Li[Li 1/6 Ni 1/6 Co1/6 Mn1/2 ]O 2-x Fx (x = 0 to 0.07) materials using low-temperature heat treatment at 700 ° C. The first cycle capacity loss of the sample (x = 0.05 mol) of fluorine was significantly reduced compared to the sample without fluorine addition. The irreversible capacity loss decreased from 18% to 9%, as shown in Figure 9d. Zhao et al. [96] synthesized a gradient polyanion doping strategy using PO 4 3 -, resulting in the formation of surface spinel nanolayers and polyanion-doped layered core materials in LRM, as shown in Figure 9e. This strategy combines the benefits of surface coating and bulk doping, stabilizing the oxygen arrangement structure of LRM through polyanion PO 4 3 -doping and mitigating side reactions with the electrolyte. The LRM material modified with 5% solubility phosphate exhibits a reversible discharge capacity of up to 300 mAh g -1 at 0.1C, with a capacity retention rate of 95% after 100 cycles, demonstrating excellent stability and cycling performance. Furthermore, some researchers have attempted to dope cations and anions into LRM materials to achieve synergistic e/uniFB00ects. Li et al. [ 111] successfully doped Nb and F ions into the Mn and O sites of the Li 1.2 Mn0.54 Co0.13 Ni 0.13 O2 layer using the conventional high-

temperature solid-state method. The substitution of the Mn sites with Nb e/uniFB00ectively suppressed the structure migration of transition metal ions during the cycling process, thereby enhancing the structural stability of the material. F -is more electronegative than O 2 -and can e/uniFB00ectively inhibit oxygen generation during the initial charging. Additionally, Liu et al. [ 112] successfully achieved the co-doping of Na and F ions in Li 1.2 Ni 0.2 Mn0.6O2 material, which e/uniFB00ectively prevents the phase transition from layered structure to spinel structure through its synergistic effect. The co-doped Li 1.12 Na0.08 Ni 0.2 Mn0.6 O1.95 F0.05 material exhibited excellent cycling stability and rate performance, with capacity retention close to 100% after 100 cycles at 0.2C and a specific capacity remaining at 167 mAh g -1 even at a high rate of 5 C.

In summary, the introduction of dopants can inhibit transition metal migration and reduce lattice oxygen loss, thereby improving the cycling and rate performance of LRM materials and mitigating voltage fading. However, dopants are often chemically inactive substances, and their incorporation can decrease the specific capacity and energy density of the materials. Furthermore, excessive doping can disrupt the original crystal structure and compromise the material's performance. Therefore, it is crucial to control the amount of dopants introduced during experimentation.

www.advmat.de

Figure 9. Doping modification of LRM cathode materials. a) Schematic structural design of gradient surface Na + doping Li-rich materials. Reproduced with permission. [82] Copyright 2015, Wiley-VCH. b) K + doping cycling performance diagram. Reproduced with permission. [85] Copyright 2014, American Chemical Society. c) Migration energies in the pristine (LiNiCoMnO) and TM-layer-Nb (LiNiCoMnNbO) structures. Reproduced with permission. [103] Copyright 2020, Elsevier. d) Schematic structural intent of the F -doping schematic structure. Reproduced with permission. [93] Copyright 2016, Elsevier. e) Schematic structural intent of the polyanionic PO 4 3 -doping structure. Reproduced with permission. [96] Copyright 2016, Wiley-VCH.

## 6.3. Coating

Coating the surface of the LRM cathode with a uniformly distributed layer can e/uniFB00ectively inhibit electrolyte erosion and enhance the material's stability and electrochemical performance. The coating layer primarily serves the following functions: 1) Preventing direct contact between the electrolyte and the cathode material, thereby reducing interfacial side reactions. 2) Forming a surface passivation layer that inhibits the transformation of the material from a layered structure to a spinel structure. 3) Additional sites for lithium-ion embedding should be provided, thereby reducing irreversible capacity loss. Currently, according to the type of coating, materials can be mainly categorized into oxides (Al 2 O3, [113] ZnO, [114] AlPO4 , [ 115] etc.), spinels (Li 4 Mn5O12, [116] etc.), fluorides (CaF, [ 117] AlF 3 , [ 118] etc.), and carbon materials (carbon, [ 119,120] graphite, [ 121] etc.).

Sun et al. [ 115] utilized the atomic layer deposition (ALD) technique to apply an aluminum phosphate (AlPO 4 ) coating on the surface of Li 1.2 Mn0.54 Co0.13 Ni 0.13 O2. They found that some of the layered Li 2 MnO3 phases transformed into spinel phases during the ALD process, e/uniFB00ectively suppressing lattice oxygen release during the first charging and discharging cycles, as shown in Figure 10 a. Additionally, the presence of the AlPO 4 coating significantly improved the ICE of the LRM cathode. Compared with the uncoated LRM material, the ICE of the AlPO 4 -coated electrode increased from 75.2% to 86.2%. To address capacity and voltage fading, as well as poor kinetics caused by lattice oxygen release, Guo et al. [ 116] applied a Li4Mn5O12 heterostructure coating on the LRM cathode material, as shown in Figure 10b. Compared with Li-rich layered oxides, the spinel Li 4 Mn5O12 heterostructured material e/uniFB00ectively prevented oxygen release in its deeply delighted state. The heterostructured cathode material exhibited good electrochemical performance, the first discharge capacity of up to 276 mAh g -1 at 0.05 C and a capacity retention of 83.1% after 300 cycles at 0.2 C.

Lu et al. [ 122] calcined SnS 2 -coated Li 1.2 Mn0.54 Ni 0.13 Co0.13O2 under a low-pressure argon atmosphere, enhancing the stability and reversibility of anion redox reactions. The sulfur ions in the lattice mitigated irreversible oxygen redox by participating in the redox reaction, thus improving the strength of the octahedra. The release of O 2 and CO2 was reduced by constructing the SnS 2 -x -/u1D70E O y coating, which trapped oxidation states O n -(0 ≤ n &lt; 2), as shown in Figure 10c. The modified cathode material exhibited good electrochemical performance with a high ICE of 87.39%. Its capacity and voltage retention reached 94.08% and 87.86%, respectively, after 200 cycles at 0.5 C. Scrosati et al. [ 118] successfully prepared AlF 3 -coated Li[Li 0.19 Ni 0.16 Co0.08 Mn0.57 ]O 2 cathode materials, significantly enhancing their electrochemical performance. Compared to the uncoated LRM material, the discharge capacity of the 1wt% AlF 3 -coated material increased from 227.6 mAh g -1 to 245.6 mAh g -1 (2.0-4.6 V). The ICE increased from 82.8% to 90.8%, as shown in Figure 10d. Additionally, the capacity retention of the pristine, 1wt% AlF 3 -coated and 2 wt% AlF 3 -coated samples were 73.4%, 79.6%, and 85.9%, respectively, after 100 cycles at 0.2 C, as shown in Figure 10e. Wang et al. [ 119] synthesized modified materials coated with a 15 nm-thick hydroxyl-rich carbon layer (C-LRM) via a hydrothermal method and assembled C-LRM-PAA electrodes by combining C-LRM with LiPAA as the binder. Figure 10f illustrates the synergistic e/uniFB00ect of the carbon coating and hydroxyl groups, where strong hydrogen bonds between the abundant carboxyl groups in LiPAA and the hydroxyl groups in C-LRM tightly bind the components of the C-LRM-PAA

www.advmat.de

Figure 10. Coating modification of LRM cathode materials. a) Schematic diagram of the improvement mechanism of AlPO 4 coating. Reproduced with permission. [115] Copyright 2017, Elsevier. b) Schematic diagram of the improvement mechanism of Li 4 Mn5 O 12 coating. Reproduced with permission. [116] Copyright 2018, Wiley-VCH. c) Schematic diagram of sulphur-assisted surface modification. Reproduced with permission. [122] Copyright 2023, WileyVCH. d,e) Electrochemical performance diagrams of AlF 3 coating. Reproduced with permission. [118] Copyright 2012, Wiley-VCH. f) Schematic diagram of carbon coating and hydroxyl group synergism to reduce cathode particle and wafer cracking. g) Cycling performance of three electrode materials. f,g) Reproduced with permission. [119] Copyright 2024, Elsevier.

electrode, thereby preventing electrode cracking. Furthermore, the carbon coating on the electrode surface also e/uniFB00ectively prevents cracking. Figure 10g presents the cycling performance of the three electrode materials. The capacity retention of P-LRMPVDF(pristine LRM electrode with PVDF binder), C-LRM-PVDF (C-LRM electrode with PVDF binder), and C-LRM-PAA (C-LRM electrode with LiPAA binder) was 40.8%, 40.4%, and 75.5%, respectively, after 200 cycles at 1 C. This significant contrast can be attributed to the protective e/uniFB00ect of the carbon coating, which enhances the cycling stability by preventing electrode degradation.

## 6.4. Surface Engineering

Surface engineering primarily involves treating LRM cathode materials under specific conditions using compounds such as easily decomposable substances (urea, [ 123,124] ammonium bicarbonate [125] ) and acid/alkali solutions (sulfuric acid, [ 126] ammonium persulfate [127] ). Surface engineering enables chemical delithiation or pre-activation of active lattice oxygen on the material surface, reducing surface activity and enhancing structural stability. Consequently, this process suppresses capacity and voltage fading while improving the ICE and cycle stability.

Maibach et al. [ 128] formed a lithium-deficient layer in the nearsurface region of cobalt-free Li 1.2 Ni 0.2 Mn0.6O2 through phosphoric acid surface treatment, inducing lattice distortion and oxidation state O n -species. Upon thermal treatment, the metastable O n -was released from the lattice oxygen and formed oxygen gas, leading to surface remodeling and transformation of the layered phase to the spinel/rock salt phase, thereby enhancing the material's structural stability and cycling performance. Peng et al. [ 129] created a lithium vacancy layer on the material's surface by regulating the lithium and transition metal content, inducing the formation of in-situ spinel cladding and nickel doping, as shown in Figure 11 a. The synergistic e/uniFB00ect of these three modifications significantly enhanced the ICE and rate performance of the material, while suppressing capacity and voltage degradation. Compared to the first discharge capacity of 193.9 mAh g -1 , the material showed 93.1% capacity retention after 500 cycles at 1C (250 mAh g -1 ), with an average voltage exceeding 3.1 V. Additionally, surface pre-activation eliminated residual lithium compounds (e.g., lithium oxide, lithium carbonate, lithium hydroxide) and prevented the formation of non-chemically active substances from side reactions, thus avoiding excessive buildup on the surface. [ 29] Pre-activation through chemical delithiation can suppress rapid voltage and capacity degradation, trim active

www.advmat.de

Figure 11. Surface engineering of LRM cathode materials. a) Schematic diagram of the synthesis of LRM cathode materials containing Li defects. Reproduced with permission. [129] Copyright 2019, American Chemical Society. b) Schematic gas-solid interfacial reaction (GSIR) diagram between LRM cathode and carbon dioxide. Reproduced under terms of the CC-BY license. [130] Copyright 2016, Qiu et al., published by Springer Nature. c) Schematic diagram of the preparation and surface modification of LRM cathode materials. d) Electrochemical properties of LRM cathode materials after surface modification. c,d) Reproduced with permission. [131] Copyright 2020, American Chemical Society.

lattice oxygen on the material surface, reduce surface active oxygen, create a surface oxygen vacancy layer to mitigate irreversible lattice oxygen loss and enhance ion and electron transport e/uniFB03ciency, thereby improving the ICE and rate performance. Qiu et al. [ 130] designed a gas-solid interface reaction to form a uniform oxygen vacancy layer on the material surface, as shown in Figure 11b, significantly suppressing the generation of oxygen and carbon dioxide during cycling, achieving a dischargespecific capacity of up to 301 mAh g -1 and increasing the ICE from 83.8% to 93.2%. [125] After 100 cycles, no significant voltage or capacity degradation. Yu et al. [ 131] prepared micron-sized Lirich layered oxide grains (LLOs) with good dispersibility using a molten salt method. They introduced spinel structures on the surface through (NH 4 ) 2 S2 O8 solution treating and annealing processes, as shown in Figure 11c. Compared with the LLOs microsized crystalline grains (MCG) samples that were not treated with (NH4)2 S 2O8 solution, the capacity of the LLOs MCG/400 samples annealed at 400 ° C after being treated with (NH 4 ) 2 S2O8 solution increased from 249 mAh g -1 to 268 mAh g -1 . The ICE rose from 73.8% to 80.1%, as shown in Figure 11d. The cyclic stability and rate performance of LLOs MCG/400 samples after sur- face pretreatment have been significantly improved, mainly due to the formation of a spinel structure with 3D lithium-ion di/uniFB00usion channels on the grain surface. In summary, pre-activation treatment of LRM cathode materials can create lithium and oxygen vacancy structures on the surface while constructing coating layers, such as spinel, to suppress lattice oxygen release and transition metal migration, enhance structural stability, and achieve excellent long-term cycling and rate performance.

## 6.5. Multimodification Strategy

Bulk doping of LRM cathode materials e/uniFB00ectively increases their lattice constant and forms stronger metal ─ oxygen bonds, enhancing electrical conductivity and promoting lithium-ion conduction during cycling. This process also improves the structural stability of the materials. Additionally, constructing oxygen vacancies and spinel phases on the material surface broadly inhibits lattice oxygen release and reduces oxygen generation. The construction of oxygen vacancies can reduce the migration energy barrier of lithium-ions, and the formation of the spinel phase

www.advancedsciencenews.com constructs a quasi-3D lithium-ion di/uniFB00usion channel, which accelerates the lithium-ion transport and enhances the multiplicity performance of the material. Surface coating can reduce the contact area between electrolytes and cathode material, alleviate the erosion of electrolytes on the material surface, and inhibit side reactions during the cycling process, thus improving the material's specific capacity and cycling stability. However, single-sided modification strategies have limitations and cannot simultaneously achieve structural and interfacial stability. Therefore, combining bulk doping, defect engineering, and surface coating to achieve a synergistic e/uniFB00ect of multiple modification strategies is essential for e/uniFB00ectively improving the electrochemical and mechanical properties of the material.

Peng et al. [ 132] successfully mitigated voltage fading and improved the cycling stability of the material through a comprehensive three-in-one approach involving cation-anion codoping, defect design, and stress engineering. The introduction of Na + /SO4 2 -co-doping stabilized the crystal structure, enhancing both the discharge-specific capacity and voltage stability of the material. Additionally, the incorporation of defects activated morereaction sites, catalyzing electrochemical performance. Furthermore, the unique structure of alternating defective bands and crystals helps to alleviate stress accumulation caused by changes in battery volume during cycling, as shown in Figure 12 a. Consequently, the modified sample exhibited a capacity retention rate of 94.1% after 100 cycles at 0.2 C, maintaining a capacity of 273 mAh g -1 , significantly higher than that of the unmodified sample (189 mAh g -1 after 100 cycles, with a capacity retention rate of 69.5%). Moreover, the modified sample retained 152 mAh g -1 after 1000 cycles at 2C, with a corresponding voltage fading of less than 0.907 mV per cycle, as shown in Figure 12b.

Min et al. [ 133] constructed a Fe 2 O3/spinel double coating and K + doping multilayer interfacial cathode material for LRM by pyrolysis with potassium Prussian blue. This innovative approach e/uniFB00ectively mitigated lattice oxygen release and prevented structural aberrations during extended cycling, resulting in high ICE, favorable rate performance, and prolonged cycling stability, as shown in Figure 12c. Wang et al. [134] implemented a dual modification strategy that combined defect engineering and interface optimization to introduce oxygen vacancies, a carbon nitride protective layer, and a fast ionic conductor into the LRM cathode material. This strategy e/uniFB00ectively mitigated voltage fading restricted the release of inaccessible oxygen during cycling, and enhanced the material's structural stability and electrochemical performance. The modified material exhibited an outstanding capacity retention rate of 94.2% after 200 cycles at 1C, with discharge capacities of 173.1 and 136.9 mAh g -1 after 100 cycles at 5 and 10 C, respectively, as shown in Figure 12d. Lin et al. [ 124] achieved the simultaneous formation of oxygen vacancies, spinel phase, and nitrogen-doped carbon nanolayers on the LRM cathode material's surface through urea decomposition, utilizing a 'threein-one' surface treatment e/uniFB00ect. This approach e/uniFB00ectively mitigated electrolyte corrosion, inhibited irreversible oxygen release, and yielded excellent electrochemical performance, as shown in Figure 12e. The processed LRM cathode material exhibited a discharge capacity of 245.5 mAh g -1 at 0.5 C, maintaining an average discharge capacity of 173.6 mAh g -1 even at 10 C. After 500 cycles at 1 C, the material retained a high capacity retention of 89.9%,

www.advmat.de with minimal voltage fading at only 1.09 mV per cycle, e/uniFB00ectively suppressing capacity and voltage fading, as shown in Figure 12f.

## 6.6. Binder and Electrolyte Modulation

LRM cathode materials undergo erosion by organic electrolytes during battery charge/discharge cycling, resulting in surface/interface structure deterioration. As the number of cycles increases, this erosion extends to the bulk phase of the material, causing internal structural damage, transition metal dissolution, and induced phase transitions. [ 135] In response to this challenge, researchers have conducted extensive investigations on organic electrolytes in recent years to discover methods for mitigating their erosion on LRM cathode materials.

Conventional organic electrolytes typically consist of lithium salt and mixed organic solvents, with LiPF 6 being the primary salt. While this electrolyte ensures stable battery operation at low voltage, it can detrimentally a/uniFB00ect the structure and performance of LRM materials when voltages exceed 4.5 V. LiPF 6 reacts with trace water molecules, generating harmful substances such as HF, which erodes the positive electrode's surface, disrupts the protective layer, and accelerates solvent decomposition. Moreover, commonly used carbonate solvents are flammable and possess a narrow stabilization window, potentially leading to the formation of thick interfacial films that impede lithiumion transport. Consequently, developing stable electrolytes under high voltage conditions becomes imperative to safeguard LRM cathodes and uphold their performance. A stable electrolyte system is crucial in lithium-ion batteries, necessitating adherence to the following criteria: 1) A wide electrochemical window to ensure battery system stability during charge and discharge cycles. 2) Formation of a stable solid electrolyte film to prevent direct contact between electrolyte and electrode materials, thereby enhancing cycling stability and safety. 3) Elimination of by-products stemming from oxygen ion redox reactions to diminish side reactions, extend battery longevity, and enhance safety. [ 136]

Various new electrolytes and additives, including borates, [ 137-139] phosphites, [140-142] and ester alkanes [143-145] have been investigated to address interfacial issues. Meng et al. [ 146] demonstrated that using lithium bis(oxalate) and borate (LiBOB) as an electrolyte additive can enhance the cycling stability of high-voltage LRM/graphite full cells. Carbonate-based electrolytes often lead to oxidation and structural damage of ethylene carbonate (EC) molecules due to surface-side reactions during high-voltage charging. Borate additives e/uniFB00ectively mitigate these issues by inhibiting HF corrosion, as shown in Figure 13 a,b. Gao et al. [ 147] added 1,3,6-hexanecarbonitrile (HTN) to the electrolyte, which could reduce the direct contact between the electrolyte and the cathode, and mitigate the oxidative decomposition of the electrolyte by utilizing the strong interaction between the C ═ N group of the HTN molecule and the surface metal ions. By forming a more stable and uniform interfacial film on the surface of the positive electrode, it e/uniFB00ectively inhibits the decomposition of the electrolyte and the destruction of the structure of the positive electrode during high cycling, as shown in Figure 13c.

Yu et al. [ 148] realized an in situ 'anchored and cast' synergistic cathode electrolyte interface (CEI) structure by using

www.advmat.de

Figure 12. Multimodification strategy of LRM cathode materials. a) 'Three in One' design schematic diagram. b) Electrochemical performance diagram of LRM cathode material prepared by 'three in one' method. (a,b) Reproduced under terms of the CC-BY license. [132] Copyright 2021, He et al., published by Springer Nature. c) Multi-interface reconstruction process and design mechanism diagram. Reproduced under terms of the CC-BY license. [133] Copyright 2023, Xu et al., published by Wiley-VCH. d) Diagram of defect design, interface engineering double modification mechanism, and schematic diagram of electrochemical performance. Reproduced with permission. [134] Copyright 2021, American Chemical Society. e) 'Three in one' surface modification schematic diagram. f) Electrochemical performance diagram of LRM material after surface modification. (e,f) Reproduced with permission. [124] Copyright 2020, Wiley-VCH.

1,3,6-hexyltricarbonitrile (HTCN) and tris(trimethylsilyl) phosphate (TMSP) electrolyte additives, e/uniFB00ectively suppressing the dissolution of transition metals and protecting the cathode from various side reactions, which significantly improved the electrochemical performance of the battery. The adsorption energies of di/uniFB00erent cathode materials at the (001) surface were calculated based on DFT, estimating the adsorption priorities of five di/uniFB00erent electrolytes on the LRM cathode. The results indicate that HTCN and TMSP additives are more readily adsorbed on the surface of the LRM cathode than ethylene carbonate (EC) and diethyl carbonate (DEC) solvents, promoting their participation in the construction of the CEI

structure, as shown in Figure 13d,e. Based on these calculations, HTCN and TMSP are proposed as binary additives for the EC/DEC commercial electrolyte LiPF 6 , acting synergistically to build the CEI layer and inhibit TM dissolution and irreversible side reactions, as shown in Figure 13f. Electrochemical performance tests revealed that the sample using the HTCN + TMSPcombinationadditive (BE/T/H-EC/DEC(BE) + 0.5 wt% TMSP + 0.5 wt% HTCN) had the highest first discharge capacity (265.3 mAh g -1 ) and IC (82.11%), with a capacity retention of 93.83% after 200 cycles at 1C, and a discharge voltage fading of only 0.5 mV/cycle, as shown in Figure 13g,j.

www.advmat.de

Figure 13. Binder and electrolyte modulation for LRM cathode materials. a) Schematic diagram of carbonate-based electrolyte decomposition. b) Schematic diagram of battery performance enhancement by addition of borate electrolyte. (a,b) Reproduced with permission. [146] Copyright 2022, Wiley-VCH. c) Schematic diagram of the surface modification mechanism of anodic HTN additives. Reproduced with permission. [147] Copyright 2017, Elsevier. d) Absorption energies of EC, DEC, HTCN, and TMSP on di/uniFB00erent anodic (001) surfaces. e) Highest occupied molecular orbitals (HOMO of HTCN, TMSP, EC, DEC, and PF 6 -and LUMO. f) Schematic illustration of the synergistic e/uniFB00ect of HTCN + TMSP in tuning the CEI structure and cathode electrochemistry. g-j) E/uniFB00ect of HTCN and TMSP on the electrochemical performance of half-cells. (d-j) Reproduced with permission. [148] Copyright 2020, Wiley-VCH.

## 7. Application of LRM Cathode Materials in ASSBs

LRM cathode materials exhibit high specific capacity and energy density due to their unique structure, which gives them great potential for application in the battery field. However, applying LRM cathode materials in liquid lithium-ion batteries also faces significant challenges, as shown in Figure 14 . The primary issues include: 1) Structural phase transitions induced by electrochemical cycling can result in volume expansion and contraction, leading to increased internal stress and particle rupture. 2) The liquid electrolyte reacts with the cathode material to generate by-products that hinder Li + migration. 3) At high voltage, the leaching of transition metals such as Mn can poison the SEI film, leading to the loss of electrode activity. 4) Side reactions at the electrolyte and cathode material interface increase interfacial impedance and contribute to voltage fading. 5) At high voltage, the lattice oxygen of the LRM cathode material is prone to escape, leading to the instability of the material structure and may cause safety problems. In contrast to traditional liquid lithiumion batteries, ASSBs utilizing LRM cathode materials o/uniFB00er notable advantages: 1) Solid-state electrolytes provide a more stable interface, reduce side reactions, and enhance cycle longevity. 2) Solid-state electrolytes demonstrate better thermal stability and can maintain stability at high temperatures, reducing the risk of thermal runaway. 3) Solid-state electrolytes provide a wider elec-

trochemical stability window, adapting to the working requirements of high voltage LRM cathode materials. 4) Solid-state electrolytes can e/uniFB00ectively prevent the dissolution of transition metals and maintain battery performance.

## 7.1. Solid-State Electrolyte

In solid-state electrolyte systems, polymer solid electrolytes and inorganic solid electrolytes are the two main types. Polymer solid electrolytes, exemplified by polyethylene oxide (PEO), provide inherent advantages, including high plasticity and ease of processing. Nevertheless, the PEO system demonstrates low Li + conductivity (10 -8 -10 -6 S cm -1 ) at room temperature, thus limiting its practical e/uniFB03ciency. [ 149] Inorganic solid-state electrolytes are considered ideal candidates for solid-state battery applications utilizing high voltage cathode materials due to their high room-temperature lithium-ion conductivity and broad voltage window. [150] Inorganic solid-state electrolytes are classified into three primary categories: sulfides, halides, and oxides, as shown in Table 2 .

Sulfide-based solid-state electrolytes, including Li 7 P3 S11 , Li 9.54 Si 1.74 P1.44 S11.7 Cl 0.3 , Li 10 GeP2 S 12 , and Li 6 PS5 Cl, exhibit high ionic conductivity and favorable interfacial contact properties, making them focal points in current research. [ 162]

Figure 14. Structure of liquid and solid-state batteries, advantages of solid-state batteries compared with liquid batteries.

Wu et al. [152] introduced a bifunctional modification strategy to facilitate the stable operation of LRM cathode materials in sulfide-based ASSBs. Figure 15 a illustrates the synthesis of Li 1.2 Ni 0.13 Co0.13 Mn0.54 Ru0.01O2 (LLO-Ru), in which a small amount of ruthenium (Ru) is incorporated to enhance lithium di/uniFB00usion within the Li 2 MnO3 component and partially activate the Li 2 MnO3 phase. Furthermore, the formation of Ru-O robust covalent bonds enhances the stability of the oxygen lattice, inhibits subsequent electrochemical oxidation of the sulfide

Table 2. Typical Li-rich ASSBs electrochemical performance.

| Types   | Electrolytes                      | Chemical formula                           | Voltage [V]   | First discharge capacity [mAh g - 1 /0.1C   | Capacity retention [%/cycle/C]   | Temperature   | Refs.   |
|---------|-----------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|---------------|---------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|---------------|---------|
| Sulfide | Li 6 PS 5 Cl                      | Li 2 RuO 3                                 | 2.0-4.3       | 220                                         | 90/1000/1                        | 60 ° C        | [151]   |
|         | Li 6 PS 5 Cl                      | Li 1.2 Ni 0.13 Co 0.13 Mn 0.54 Ru 0.01 O 2 | 1.4-4.2       | 204                                         | 72/2000/1                        | 55 ° C        | [152]   |
|         | Li 6 PS 5 Cl/ Li 3 InCl 6         | Li 2 RuO 3                                 | 2.0-4.5       | 294                                         | 99.6/300/0.5                     | 60 ° C        | [153]   |
|         | Li 6 PS 5 Cl                      | Li 1.2 Ni 0.13 Co 0.13 Mn 0.54 O 2         | 2.0-4.8       | 163                                         | 83/1000/0.5                      | 27 ° C        | [154]   |
| Halide  | Li 3 InCl 4.8 F 1.2               | Li 1.2 Mn 0.54 Co 0.13 Ni 0.13 O 2         | 2.3-4.6       | 248                                         | 81.2/300/1                       | 30 ° C        | [155]   |
|         | Li 3 InCl 6                       | Li 1.17 Mn 0.55 Ni 0.24 Co 0.05 O 2        | 2.0-4.8       | 230.7                                       | 87.9/100/0.2                     | 25 ° C        | [156]   |
|         | Li 3 InCl 6                       | Li 1.15 Mn 0.53 Ni 0.265 Co 0.055 O 2      | 1.4-4.2       | 221                                         | 49.8/100/0.1                     | 25 ° C        | [157]   |
| Oxide   | Li 6.75 La 3 Zr 1.75 Nb 0.25 O 12 | Li 1.2 Mn 0.55 Ni 0.2 Co 0.05 O 2          | 2.0-4.8       | 183.1                                       | 73.4/300/0.1                     | 25 ° C        | [158]   |
|         | Li 6.5 La 3 Zr 1.5 Ta 0.5 O 12    | Li 1.2 Ni 0.2 Mn 0.6 O 2                   | 2.0-4.8       | 245                                         | 100/200/0.2                      | 25 ° C        | [159]   |
|         | Li 3 PO 4                         | Li 2 RuO 3                                 | 3.0-4.0       | 101.4                                       | 99/30/0.1                        | 30 ° C        | [160]   |
|         | Li 7 La 3 Zr 2 O 12               | Li 1.2 Mn 0.567 Ni 0.167 Co 0.067 O 2      | 2.0-4.7       | 226@0.05C                                   | 79.6/30/0.5                      | 80 ° C        | [161]   |

solid electrolyte (SE), and reduces the formation of interfacial side reaction products. Consequently, the use of a modified LLORu@S sample as the cathode material, coupled with Li 6 PS5 Cl as the electrolyte, yielded a remarkable performance, achieving a specific capacity of 140.6 mAh g -1 at 0.5C, with over 70% capacity retention after 2022 cycles at 1 C. Pan et al. [ 154] utilized LRM as the cathode material, paired with Li 6 PS5 Cl as the electrolyte for ASSBs, demonstrating excellent performance, as shown in Figure 15b. Studies indicated that Li 6 PS5 Cl undergoes reversible www.advmat.de

www.advmat.de

Figure 15. Application of LRM cathode materials in ASSBs. a) Schematic diagram of dual modification for stabilizing the cathode of ASSBs. Reproduced with permission. [152] Copyright 2023, Wiley-VCH. b) Cycling performance of LRM ASSBs. Reproduced with permission. [154] Copyright 2022, American Chemical Society. c) Severe oxygen depletion of the pristine LRM, with oxygen-related reactions at the interface. d) LRM is modified by S ─ O bonding with a stabilized interface. c,d) Reproduced under terms of the CC-BY license. [155] Copyright 2022, Sun et al., published by American Association for the Advancement of Science. e) Voltage fading and the cycle of the LRM| LLZTO|3D-FLGN15 entire cell under 0.2 C at RM. Reproduced with permission. [159] Copyright 2023, Wiley-VCH.

oxidation and reduction within the voltage range of 2.0-4.8 V, thereby facilitating sustained high ionic conductivity during extended cycling.

Solid-state halide electrolytes, such as Li 3 YCl6 and Li 3 InCl 6 , exhibit exceptional electrochemical stability and high ionic conductivity. [ 163] These electrolytes typically possess a broad electrochemical stability window, thereby meeting the requirements of high voltage cathode materials. Zhang et al. [155] introduced an e/uniFB00ective engineering strategy that involves the surface introduction of sulfide (SO 3 2 -) onto Li 1.2 Mn0.54 Co0.13 Ni 0.13 O2, combined with amorphous lithium sulfate, to establish a high ion conductivity pathway, as shown in Figure 15c,d. This approach replaces weakly bonded surface oxygen with stable polyanions, thereby mitigating excessive oxidation of surface oxygen during the charging process by compensation for the transfer of O 2 -charge to SO 3 2 -. The stable interface and superior ion conduction network of the modified Li 1.2 Mn0.54 Co0.13 Ni 0.13O2 cathode,

in conjunction with Li 3 InCl 4.8 F1.2 electrolyte, resulted in exceptional performance in ASSBs. Specifically, the battery achieved high specific capacities of 248 and 225 mAh g -1 under conditions of 1.1 and 2.9 mAh cm -2 , respectively, and exhibited excellent long-term cycling stability at 4.6 V (vs. Li/Li + ). After 300 cycles at a rate of 1 C at room temperature, the capacity retention rate is ≈ 81.2%.

Solid oxide electrolytes, including perovskite-type Li 0.33 La 0.557 TiO3 (LLTO), garnet type Li 7 La 3 Zr2 O12 (LLZO), NASICON type Li 1.3 Al 0.3 Ti 1.7 (PO4 ) 3 (LATP), and nitrogen-doped lithium phosphate (LiPON), have garnered significant attention due to their stable structure and high ionic conductivity. [ 164] Liu et al. [ 159] devised a 3D foam structure GaN-Li composite anode and e/uniFB00ectively assembled a solid-state battery utilizing the cobalt-free Li 1.2 Ni 0.2 Mn0.6O2 LRM cathode and Li 6.5 La 3 Zr1.5 Ta 0.5 O12 (LLZTO) solid oxide electrolyte. The resulting battery exhibited the first discharge capacity of up to

www.advancedsciencenews.com

245 mAh g -1 at 0.1C, with no capacity degradation (maintained at 100%) after 200 cycles at 0.2 C. Voltage fading was e/uniFB00ectively mitigated, decreasing substantially from 2.96 mV per cycle to merely 0.66 mV per cycle, as shown in Figure 15e.

Despite recent advancements in addressing failure mechanisms in LRM ASSBs through cathode material composition adjustments, the establishment of e/uniFB03cient lithium-ion and electron transport networks within composite cathodes, and the design of stable cathode-electrolyte interfaces, challenges persist with the LRM cathode. These challenges include poor charge transfer kinetics, leading to sluggish electron and ion transfer rates during battery charging and discharging, thereby impacting battery performance and cycle stability. Additionally, under high operating voltages, intensified lattice oxygen loss and structural transformations of the positive electrode material may occur, potentially leading to capacity degradation and reduced material cycle life. Another critical concern is the interface degradation between the positive electrode and electrolyte, which may cause elevated internal resistance and interface deactivation, ultimately compromising battery performance and safety. Finally, electrochemical mechanical failure represents a significant challenge, as the positive electrode material may experience volume changes and stress concentrations during charging and discharging, leading to material delamination, cracking, and mechanical damage to the battery. Therefore, further investigation into these failure mechanisms and developing corresponding improvement measures are imperative to enhance the performance, stability, and safety of LRM ASSBs, thereby facilitating their broader practical utilization.

## 7.2. Challenges of LRM in ASSBs

Despite the significant advantages of LRM cathode materials in ASSBs, including high energy density, good cycling stability, and a relatively high voltage platform, several important challenges persist in practical applications. These challenges primarily encompass the following aspects. First, the low electronic conductivity of LRM cathodes limits the battery performance during high-rate charge and discharge. Second, the interfacial instability between the cathode material and the solid electrolyte can decrease e/uniFB03ciency and reduce the battery lifespan. Additionally, phenomena such as lattice oxygen release and volume expansion during cycling further compromise the battery's structural integrity and electrochemical performance. Therefore, in-depth research on the interfacial issues between LRM cathodes and solid electrolytes, particularly regarding the impact of structural evolution on interfacial stability, is crucial for achieving high-energydensity ASSBs. Exploring these interfacial mechanisms can enhance battery performance and safety while providing valuable guidance for developing and optimizing new materials.

## 7.2.1. Low Electronic Conductivity

The low electronic conductivity of LRM cathode materials ( ≈ 10 -8 S cm -1 ) leads to poor electron transport in solid-state electrodes, restricting the battery's performance during high-rate charge and discharge processes and resulting in reduced charging and dis-

www.advmat.de charging e/uniFB03ciency. Additionally, low electronic conductivity increases the battery's internal resistance, leading to energy loss, particularly during fast charging or high-power applications, which can significantly reduce the battery's power output. To enhance the conductivity of LRM cathode materials, an appropriate amount of conductive additives can be incorporated into the electrode materials to form a robust conductive network, thereby improving overall electronic conductivity. Sun et al. [ 156] established continuous electron conduction pathways by introducing a suitable amount of carbon additives into solid-state LRM electrodes. Furthermore, by employing an injection and coating strategy, a high oxidation-stability and good ionic conductivity interfacial layer (Li 3 PO4) was constructed on the surface of LRM. This interfacial layer e/uniFB00ectively stabilizes the lattice oxygen of LRM, minimizes local structural changes, suppresses interfacial degradation between LRM and the solid electrolyte, and facilitates lithium-ion transport at the interface. Additionally, doping with other elements that possess higher conductivity (such as cobalt, nickel, etc.) can improve the conductivity of LRM cathodes. These elements can e/uniFB00ectively enhance the electronic conductivity of the material, thereby improving its performance. Modifying the interface between the LRM cathode and the solid electrolyte through surface coatings or synthetic interfacial layers can also e/uniFB00ectively reduce interfacial impedance and enhance charge transfer capability.

## 7.2.2. Unstable Interface

The interface between LRM cathode and solid-state electrolytes in solid-state batteries may exhibit reactive or incompatible phenomena, leading to interfacial instability. This instability not only a/uniFB00ects the cycle life of the battery but may also pose safety risks. The factors contributing to interfacial instability primarily stem from the stresses generated during long-term cycling and the characteristics of the solid-solid micro-interface. Single-crystal materials demonstrate superior electrochemical performance and more stable interfacial contact in solid-state batteries than polycrystalline cathodes. The larger particle size of polycrystalline cathodes makes them more susceptible to greater voids and pores during the pressing process, resulting in poorer interfacial contact. Polycrystalline cathodes are more likely to experience particle rupture during pressing, and stress accumulation over prolonged cycling can lead to microcrack formation. In contrast, with their higher mechanical strength, single-crystal cathodes are better equipped to inhibit crack formation. Therefore, developing nano single-crystal (200800 nm) LRM cathode materials can reduce porosity during the pressing process and enhance the mechanical strength of the materials. Furthermore, advancing new electrolyte materials to e/uniFB00ectively improve the interfacial compatibility between the electrolyte and LRM cathode materials is also a promising approach.

## 7.2.3. Lattice Oxygen Release

LRM cathode materials exhibit a highvoltage platform, which can lead to the easy escape of lattice oxygen from the structure

www.advancedsciencenews.com when operating at elevated voltages. This phenomenon arises because high voltage enhances the activity of oxygen ions within the material, leading to some lattice oxygen participating in electrochemical reactions and escape. The release of oxygen can react with the solid electrolyte, resulting in interfacial chemical instability. Furthermore, the escape of lattice oxygen creates oxygen vacancies within the material, leading to structural changes that reduce its stability. Therefore, it is imperative to address the issue of lattice oxygen release. The surface coating of LRM cathodes with materials such as Li 3 PO4, LiNiO 2 , and LiNbO3 has e/uniFB00ectively suppressed oxygen release. These coatings also e/uniFB00ectively protect the material surface, reducing reactions between the electrolyte and the cathode. Additionally, the development of new lithium-rich oxide materials, such as O2-type structured Li-rich cathode and Li2RuO3 cathode, or the modification of existing materials can enhance their structural stability at high voltages. Adjusting the crystal structure makes it possible to minimize the generation of oxygen vacancies during lithium deintercalation, thereby suppressing the release of oxygen.

## 7.2.4. Volumetric Expansion

During the charge and discharge processes of LRM cathode materials, the insertion and extraction of lithium ions can lead to alterations in the lattice structure. When lithium ions are extracted, the lattice spacing within the material may increase, resulting in volumetric expansion. Repeated volumetric changes can induce structural fatigue in the material, leading to the formation of microcracks, which accelerates material degradation and reduces the cycle life of the battery. [ 165] Additionally, volumetric expansion may result in poor contact between the electrode and the solid electrolyte, thereby increasing interfacial resistance. Furthermore, changes in structure due to volumetric expansion can a/uniFB00ect the migration pathways of lithium ions, leading to decreased ionic conductivity and negatively impacting the battery's rate performance. Therefore, fabricating the material into singlecrystal nanoparticles can e/uniFB00ectively alleviate the stress caused by volumetric changes and enhance cycling stability. Moreover, developing zero/low-strain LRM cathode materials through strategies such as bulk-phase doping and surface coating can further optimize performance. By focusing on comprehensive material design and interfacial optimization, the goal is to advance the development of high-energy-density, long-cycle-life LRM solid-state battery technologies.

In recent years, although researchers have made some progress on the failure of LRM ASSBs through strategies, such as regulating the composition of the cathode material, constructing a high-throughput lithium-ion and electron-transport network inside the composite cathode, and designing a stabilized interface between the cathode material and the solid-state electrolyte. However, challenges such as low electronic conductivity, interfacial instability, lattice oxygen release, and volumetric expansion continue to pose significant obstacles. Therefore, further in-depth research into these failure mechanisms is needed, along with the development of corresponding improvement measures, to enhance the stability and safety performance of Li-rich ASSBs, thereby promoting their practical application.

www.advmat.de

## 8. Simulation and Advanced Characterization Techniques

## 8.1. Simulation

Simulation plays a crucial role in studying the structural degradation and reaction mechanisms of solid-state LRM cathode materials, particularly in revealing the microscopic changes, interfacial reactions, and performance degradation of materials during electrochemical cycling. DFT can be employed to investigate the crystal structure, electronic structure, and reaction mechanisms of LRM cathode materials, especially the redox reactions of oxygen and the di/uniFB00usion pathways of Li + . Molecular dynamics simulations can be utilized to study ion migration, lattice changes, and interfacial stability during the charge and discharge cycles of batteries, making them particularly suitable for simulating the evolution of interfacial layers. Phase-field modeling can examine the microstructural evolution of materials over prolonged cycling periods, including grain growth and crack formation. Furthermore, Monte Carlo simulations and finite element analysis (FEM) can be utilized for statistical studies on the likelihood of various structural defects, chemical composition distributions, and reaction pathways, as well as to analyze the distribution of stress and strain within the electrode.

## 8.2. Advanced Characterization Techniques

Advanced characterization techniques are critical for studying the structural properties, performance degradation, and reaction mechanisms of solid-state LRM cathode materials. These techniques assist researchers in revealing the microstructural evolution, interfacial instability, and chemical reaction mechanisms of materials during electrochemical cycling. It is essential to understand the causes of degradation and optimize the performance of LRM cathode materials. Tarascon [36] utilized annular bright field scanning transmission electron microscopy (ABF-STEM) combined with ND techniques to visualize O-O dimers, establishing a fundamental relationship between the anionic redox process and the evolution of O-O bonding in layered oxides. P. Bruce [ 40] proposed a molecular oxygen model based on RIXS studies. Hu et al. [ 37] introduced a method to distinguish molecular oxygen and (O 2 ) n -through low-temperature EPR spectroscopy and proposed new pathways for generating molecular oxygen and (O2 ) n -, laying an important foundation for manipulating oxygen reactions and enhancing battery performance. Additionally, various in situ characterization techniques such as extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS), XANES, focused ion beam (FIB), TOF-SIMS, and NMR have also been widely applied in the study of LRM cathode materials. [166]

## 9. Summary and Prospects

Due to their high specific capacity, LRM oxides have emerged as one of the most promising cathode materials for power batteries. However, these materials encounter numerous challenges in the development of ASSBs. This paper reviews the structure, transformation mechanisms, existing issues, and modification strategies of LRM cathode materials while also discussing the research

15214095, 2025, 5, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202410006 by Yonsei University Library, Wiley Online Library on [21/04/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

www.advancedsciencenews.com progress in related fields and the current challenges these materials face in the context of solid-state batteries. Therefore, future research on LRM solid-state batteries should consider the following aspects:

- 1) Develop nano single-crystal (200-800 nm) LRM cathode materials that can e/uniFB00ectively reduce porosity during the pressing process, enhance interfacial contact with the electrolyte, and improve the mechanical strength of the materials.
- 2) Develop new Li-rich oxide materials (such as O 2 -type structured Li-rich cathode and Li 2 RuO3 cathode) or modify existing materials to reduce lattice oxygen release and enhance structural stability under high voltage.
- 3) Develop zero/low-strain LRM cathode materials through multimodification strategies, e/uniFB00ectively reducing microcracking and interfacial contact caused by volumetric expansion during cycling.
- 4) Enhance the transfer capability of LRM cathode materials through surface coatings or synthetic interfacial layers, e/uniFB00ectively lowering interfacial impedance and suppressing side reactions at the interface.
- 5) Develop novel high-voltage-resistant electrolyte materials to enhance the interfacial compatibility between the electrolyte and LRM cathode materials, reducing issues related to side reactions caused by electrolyte decomposition at high voltage.

## Acknowledegments

This work was supported by the National Key R&amp;D Program of China 2023YFB2503700 and 2022YFB2404300.

## Conflict of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## Keywords

all-solid-state batteries, lithium-ion batteries, LRM cathode, transition metal, solid-state electrolyte

Received: July 11, 2024

Revised: December 1, 2024

Published online: December 17, 2024

- [1] X. Liu, G.-L. Xu, V. S. C. Kolluru, C. Zhao, Q. Li, X. Zhou, Y . Liu, L. Yin, Z. Zhuo, A. Daali, J.-J. Fan, W. Liu, Y . Ren, W. Xu, J. Deng, I. Hwang, D. Ren, X. Feng, C. Sun, L. Huang, T. Zhou, M. Du, Z. Chen, S.-G. Sun, M. K. Y. Chan, W. Yang, M. Ouyang, K. Amine, Nat. Energy 2022 , 7 , 808.
- [2] W. Huang, T. Liu, L. Yu, J. Wang, T. Zhou, J. Liu, T. Li, R. Amine, X. Xiao, M. Ge, L. Ma, S. N. Ehrlich, M. V. Holt, J. Wen, K. Amine, Science 2024 , 384 , 912.
- [3] Y. Xia, A. Chen, K. Wang, Z. Xiao, Q. Mao, X. Lu, G. Wang, C. Lu, J. Zhang, H. Huang, Y. Gan, X. He, X. Xia, W. Zhang, Mater. Today Energy 2023 , 34 , 101292.
- [4] B. Koo, J. Chung, J. Kim, D. Fraggedakis, S. Seo, C. Nam, D. Lee, J. Han, S. Jo, H. Zhao, N. Nadkarni, J. Wang, N. Kim, M. Weigand, M. Z. Bazant, J. Lim, Energy &amp; Environ. Sci. 2023 , 16 , 3302.

www.advmat.de

- [5] X. Liu, X. Zhou, Q. Liu, J. Diao, C. Zhao, L. Li, Y . Liu, W. Xu, A. Daali, R. Harder, I. K. Robinson, M. Dahbi, J. Alami, G. Chen, G.-L. Xu, K. Amine, Adv. Mater. 2022 , 34 , 2107326.
- [6] Y. Chen, D. Xia, eTransportation 2021 , 10 , 100141.
- [7] B. Ammundsen, J. Paulsen, Adv. Mater. 2001 , 13 , 943.
- [8] M. H. Rossouw, M. M. Thackeray, Mate. Res. Bull. 1991 , 26 , 463.
- [9] K. Numata, C. Sakaki, S. Yamanaka, Chem. Lett. 2004 , 26 , 725.
- [10] P. Kalyani, S. Chitra, T. Mohan, S. Gopukumar, J. Power Sources 1999 , 80 , 103.
- [11] A. D. Robertson, P. G. Bruce, Chem.Mater. 2003 , 15 , 1984.
- [12] Y. S. Meng, G. Ceder, C. P. Grey, W. S. Yoon, M. Jiang, J. Bréger, Y. Shao-Horn, Chem. Mater. 2005 , 17 , 2386.
- [13] C. S. Johnson, J. S. Kim, C. Lefief, N. Li, J. T. Vaughey, M. M. Thackeray, Electrochem. Commun. 2004 , 6 , 1085.
- [14] Y. Pei, C.-Y . Xu, Y .-C. Xiao, Q. Chen, B. Huang, B. Li, S. Li, L. Zhen, G. Cao, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2017 , 27 , 1604349.
- [15] J. Zheng, S. Myeong, W. Cho, P. Yan, J. Xiao, C. Wang, J. Cho, J.-G. Zhang, Adv. Energy Mater. 2017 , 7 , 1601284.
- [16] J. Feng, Y .-S. Jiang, F.-D. Yu, W. Ke, L.-F. Que, J.-G. Duh, Z.-B. Wang, J. Energy Chem. 2022 , 66 , 666.
- [17] T. Wu, X. Zhang, Y. Wang, N. Zhang, H. Li, Y. Guan, D. Xiao, S. Liu, H. Yu, Adv. Func. Mater 2023 , 33 , 2210154.
- [18] M. M. Thackeray, C. S. Johnson, J. T. Vaughey, N. Li, S. A. Hackney, J. Mater. Chem. 2005 , 15 , 2257.
- [19] J. R. Croy, M. Balasubramanian, K. G. Gallagher, A. K. Burrell, Acc. Chem. Res. 2015 , 48 , 2813.
- [20] H. Yu, Y.-G. So, A. Kuwabara, E. Tochigi, N. Shibata, T. Kudo, H. Zhou, Y. Ikuhara, Nano Lett. 2016 , 16 , 2907.
- [21] Z. Lu, Z. Chen, J. R. Dahn, Chem. Mater. 2003 , 15 , 3214.
- [22] H. Yu, H. Zhou, J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 2013 , 4 , 1268.
- [23] K. A. Jarvis, Z. Deng, L. F. Allard, A. Manthiram, P. J. Ferreira, Chem. Mater. 2011 , 23 , 3614.
- [24] H. Koga, L. Croguennec, P. Mannessiez, M. Ménétrier, F. Weill, L. Bourgeois, M. Duttine, E. Suard, C. Delmas, J. Phys.Chem. C 2012 , 116 , 13497.
- [25] E. McCalla, A. W. Rowe, R. Shunmugasundaram, J. R. Dahn, Chem. Mater. 2013 , 25 , 989.
- [26] K. A. Jarvis, C.-C. Wang, A. Manthiram, P. J. Ferreira, J. Mater. Chem. A 2014 , 2 , 1353.
- [27] Z. Lu, J. R. Dahn, J. Electrochem. Soc. 2002 , 149 , A815.
- [28] Z. Lu, J. R. Dahn, J. Electrochem. Soc. 2002 , 149 , A1454.
- [29] A. R. Armstrong, M. Holzapfel, P. Novák, C. S. Johnson, S.-H. Kang, M. M. Thackeray, P. G. Bruce, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2006 , 128 , 8694.
- [30] N. Yabuuchi, K. Yoshii, S.-T. Myung, I. Nakai, S. Komaba, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2011 , 133 , 4404.
- [31] X. Zhang, B. Wang, S. Zhao, H. Li, H. Yu, eTransportation 2021 , 8 , 100118.
- [32] Y. Koyama, I. Tanaka, M. Nagao, R. Kanno, J. Power Sources 2009 , 189 , 798.
- [33] H. Koga, L. Croguennec, M. Ménétrier, K. Douhil, S. Belin, L. Bourgeois, E. Suard, F. Weill, C. Delmas, J. Electrochem. Soc. 2013 , 160 , A786.
- [34] D. Foix, M. Sathiya, E. McCalla, J.-M. Tarascon, D. Gonbeau, J. Phys. Chem. C 2016 , 120 , 862.
- [35] X. Li, Y . Qiao, S. Guo, Z. Xu, H. Zhu, X. Zhang, Y. Yuan, P. He, M. Ishida, H. Zhou, Adv. Mater. 2018 , 30 , 1705197.
- [36] E. McCalla, A. M. Abakumov, M. Saubanère, D. Foix, E. J. Berg, G. Rousse, M.-L. Doublet, D. Gonbeau, P. Novák, G. Van Tendeloo, R. Dominko, J.-M. Tarascon, Science 2015 , 350 , 1516.
- [37] X. Wu, H. Liu, X. Lou, F. Geng, J. Li, C. Li, B. Hu, J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 2023 , 14 , 7711.
- [38] K. Luo, M. R. Roberts, R. Hao, N. Guerrini, D. M. Pickup, Y.-S. Liu, K. Edström, J. Guo, A. V. Chadwick, L. C. Duda, P. G. Bruce, Nat. Chem. 2016 , 8 , 684.

- [39] D.-H. Seo, J. Lee, A. Urban, R. Malik, S. Kang, G. Ceder, Nat. Chem. 2016 , 8 , 692.
- [40] R. A. House, U. Maitra, M. A. Pérez-Osorio, J. G. Lozano, L. Jin, J. W. Somerville, L. C. Duda, A. Nag, A. Walters, K.-J. Zhou, M. R. Roberts, P. G. Bruce, Nature 2020 , 577 , 502.
- [41] R. A. House, J.-J. Marie, M. A. Pérez-Osorio, G. J. Rees, E. Boivin, P. G. Bruce, Na. Energy 2021 , 6 , 781.
- [42] R. A. House, J.-J. Marie, J. Park, G. J. Rees, S. Agrestini, A. Nag, M. Garcia-Fernandez, K.-J. Zhou, P. G. Bruce, Nat. Commun. 2021 , 12 , 2975.
- [43] M. Sathiya, G. Rousse, K. Ramesha, C. P. Laisa, H. Vezin, M. T. Sougrati, M. L. Doublet, D. Foix, D. Gonbeau, W. Walker, A. S. Prakash, M. Ben Hassine, L. Dupont, J. M. Tarascon, Nat. Mater. 2013 , 12 , 827.
- [44] N. Yabuuchi, M. Nakayama, M. Takeuchi, S. Komaba, Y. Hashimoto, T. Mukai, H. Shiiba, K. Sato, Y. Kobayashi, A. Nakao, M. Yonemura, K. Yamanaka, K. Mitsuhara, T. Ohta, Nat. Commun. 2016 , 7 , 13814.
- [45] J. Hong, W. E. Gent, P. Xiao, K. Lim, D.-H. Seo, J. Wu, P. M. Csernica, C. J. Takacs, D. Nordlund, C.-J. Sun, K. H. Stone, D. Passarello, W. Yang, D. Prendergast, G. Ceder, M. F. Toney, W. C. Chueh, Nat. Mater. 2019 , 18 , 256.
- [46] M. D. Radin, J. Vinckeviciute, R. Seshadri, A. Van der Ven, Nat. Energy 2019 , 4 , 639.
- [47] J. Rana, J. K. Papp, Z. Lebens-Higgins, M. Zuba, L. A. Kaufman, A. Goel, R. Schmuch, M. Winter, M. S. Whittingham, W. Yang, B. D. McCloskey, L. F. J. Piper, ACS Energy Lett. 2020 , 5 , 634.
- [48] J. Sun, C. Sheng, X. Cao, P. Wang, P. He, H. Yang, Z. Chang, X. Yue, H. Zhou, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2022 , 32 , 2110295.
- [49] H.-x. Wei, Y.-m. Liu, Y .-h. Luo, Y .-d. Huang, L.-b. Tang, Z.-y. Wang, C. Yan, J. Mao, K.-h. Dai, Q. Wu, X.-h. Zhang, J.-c. Zheng, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2024 , 34 , 2307583.
- [50] X. Gao, H. Zhang, S. Li, S. Zhang, C. Guan, X. Hu, J. Guo, Y. Lai, Z. Zhang, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2023 , 33 , 2304065.
- [51] B. Li, K. Zhang, Y. Yang, Y. Zuo, X. Li, D. Xia, Adv. Mater. 2024 , 36 , 2400259.
- [52] C. Cui, X. Fan, X. Zhou, J. Chen, Q. Wang, L. Ma, C. Yang, E. Hu, X.-Q. Yang, C. Wang, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2020 , 142 , 8918.
- [53] V. Massarotti, D. Capsoni, M. Bini, G. Chiodelli, C. B. Azzoni, M. C. Mozzati, A. Paleari, J. Solid State Chem. 1997 , 131 , 94.
- [54] A. Singer, M. Zhang, S. Hy, D. Cela, C. Fang, T. A. Wynn, B. Qiu, Y. Xia, Z. Liu, A. Ulvestad, N. Hua, J. Wingert, H. Liu, M. Sprung, A. V. Zozulya, E. Maxey, R. Harder, Y. S. Meng, O. G. Shpyrko, Nat. Energy 2018 , 3 , 641.
- [55] G. Assat, D. Foix, C. Delacourt, A. Iadecola, R. Dedryvère, J.-M. Tarascon, Nat. Commun. 2017 , 8 , 2219.
- [56] H. Yu, Y.-G. So, Y . Ren, T. Wu, G. Guo, R. Xiao, J. Lu, H. Li, Y . Yang, H. Zhou, R. Wang, K. Amine, Y. Ikuhara, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2018 , 140 , 15279.
- [57] Y. Zhang, C. Yin, B. Qiu, G. Chen, Y. Shang, Z. Liu, Energy Storage Mater. 2022 , 53 , 763.
- [58] T. Liu, J. Liu, L. Li, L. Yu, J. Diao, T. Zhou, S. Li, A. Dai, W. Zhao, S. Xu, Y. Ren, L. Wang, T. Wu, R. Qi, Y. Xiao, J. Zheng, W. Cha, R. Harder, I. Robinson, J. Wen, J. Lu, F. Pan, K. Amine, Nature 2022 , 606 , 305.
- [59] D. Eum, S.-O. Park, H.-Y. Jang, Y. Jeon, J.-H. Song, S. Han, K. Kim, K. Kang, Nat. Mater. 2024 , 23 , 1093.
- [60] E. Hu, X. Yu, R. Lin, X. Bi, J. Lu, S. Bak, K.-W. Nam, H. L. Xin, C. Jaye, D. A. Fischer, K. Amine, X.-Q. Yang, Nat. Energy 2018 , 3 , 690.
- [61] A. Bhardwaj, J. Kaur, M. Wuest, F. Wuest, Nat. Commun. 2017 , 8 , 1.
- [62] F. Dogan, B. R. Long, J. R. Croy, K. G. Gallagher, H. Iddir, J. T. Russell, M. Balasubramanian, B. Key, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2015 , 137 , 2328.
- [63] J.-J. Marie, R. A. House, G. J. Rees, A. W. Robertson, M. Jenkins, J. Chen, S. Agrestini, M. Garcia-Fernandez, K.-J. Zhou, P. G. Bruce, Nat. Mater. 2024 , 23 , 818.
- [64] G. Assat, J.-M. Tarascon, Nat. Energy 2018 , 3 , 373.

www.advmat.de

- [65] R. A. House, G. J. Rees, M. A. Pérez-Osorio, J.-J. Marie, E. Boivin, A. W. Robertson, A. Nag, M. Garcia-Fernandez, K.-J. Zhou, P. G. Bruce, Nat. Energy 2020 , 5 , 777.
- [66] Y. Zuo, H. Shang, J. Hao, J. Song, F. Ning, K. Zhang, L. He, D. Xia, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2023 , 145 , 5174.
- [67] M. Zhang, L. Qiu, W. Hua, Y. Song, Y. Deng, Z. Wu, Y. Zhu, B. Zhong, S. Chou, S. Dou, Y. Xiao, X. Guo, Adv. Mater. 2024 , 36 , 2311814.

[68]

W. He, W. Guo, H. Wu, L. Lin, Q. Liu, X. Han, Q. Xie, P. Liu, H. Zheng,

L. Wang, X. Yu, D.-L. Peng,

Adv. Mater.

2021

,

33

, 2005937.

- [69] Y. Liu, C. Zhang, L. Lin, X. Ai, S. Gui, W. Guo, S. Li, L. Wang, H. Yang, D.-L. Peng, Q. Xie, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2024 , 34 , 2308494.
- [70] L. Wang, L. Xu, W. Xue, Q. Fang, H. Liu, Y . Liu, K. Zhou, Y . Li, X. Wang, X. Wang, X. Yang, X. Yu, X. Wang, Nano Energy 2024 , 121 , 109241.
- [71] L. Chen, Y. Su, S. Chen, N. Li, L. Bao, W. Li, Z. Wang, M. Wang, F. Wu, Adv. Mater. 2014 , 26 , 6756.
- [72] D. Mohanty, J. Li, D. P. Abraham, A. Huq, E. A. Payzant, D. L. Wood, III, C. Daniel, Chem. Mater. 2014 , 26 , 6272.
- [73] Z. Wei, Y . Xia, B. Qiu, Q. Zhang, S. Han, Z. Liu, J. Power Sources 2015 , 281 , 7.
- [74] B. M. de Boisse, J. Jang, M. Okubo, A. Yamada, J. Electrochem. Soc. 2018 , 165 , A3630.
- [75] D. Eum, B. Kim, S. J. Kim, H. Park, J. Wu, S.-P. Cho, G. Yoon, M. H. Lee, S.-K. Jung, W. Yang, W. M. Seong, K. Ku, O. Tamwattana, S. K. Park, I. Hwang, K. Kang, Nat. Mater. 2020 , 19 , 419.
- [76] H. Shang, Y. Zuo, F. Shen, J. Song, F. Ning, K. Zhang, L. He, D. Xia, Nano Lett. 2020 , 20 , 5779.
- [77] Y. Zuo, B. Li, N. Jiang, W. Chu, H. Zhang, R. Zou, D. Xia, Adv. Mater. 2018 , 30 , 1707255.
- [78] X. Cao, H. Li, Y . Qiao, M. Jia, P. He, J. Cabana, H. Zhou, Energy Storage Mater. 2021 , 38 , 1.
- [79] X. Cao, Y. Qiao, M. Jia, P. He, H. Zhou, Adv. Energy Mater. 2022 , 12 , 2003972.
- [80] Y. Chen, Y. Liu, J. Zhang, H. Zhu, Y. Ren, W. Wang, Q. Zhang, Y. Zhang, Q. Yuan, G.-X. Chen, L. C. Gallington, K. Li, X. Liu, J. Wu, Q. Liu, Y . Chen, Energy Storage Mater. 2022 , 51 , 756.
- [81] W. He, P. Liu, B. Qu, Z. Zheng, H. Zheng, P. Deng, P. Li, S. Li, H. Huang, L. Wang, Q. Xie, D.-L. Peng, Adv. Sci. 2019 , 6 , 1802114.
- [82] R.-P. Qing, J.-L. Shi, D.-D. Xiao, X.-D. Zhang, Y .-X. Yin, Y .-B. Zhai, L. Gu, Y.-G. Guo, Adv. Energy Mater. 2016 , 6 , 1501914.
- [83] L. Yang, T. Liang, W. Zeng, X. Zhu, Z. Chen, H. He, X. Chen, W. Yan, Electrochim. Acta 2022 , 404 , 139775.
- [84] Z. Zheng, X.-D. Guo, Y.-J. Zhong, W.-B. Hua, C.-H. Shen, S.-L. Chou, X.-S. Yang, Electrochim. Acta 2016 , 188 , 336.
- [85] Q. Li, G. Li, C. Fu, D. Luo, J. Fan, L. Li, ACS Appl. Mater. &amp; Interfaces 2014 , 6 , 10330.
- [86] X. Ding, Y.-x. Li, M.-m. Deng, S. Wang, Y. Aqsa, Q. Hu, C.-h. Chen, J. Alloys Compd. 2019 , 791 , 100.
- [87] D. Wang, Y. Huang, Z. Huo, L. Chen, Electrochim. Acta 2013 , 107 , 461.
- [88] P. K. Nayak, J. Grinblat, E. Levi, M. Levi, B. Markovsky, D. Aurbach, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2017 , 19 , 6142.
- [89] P. K. Nayak, J. Grinblat, M. Levi, E. Levi, S. Kim, J. W. Choi, D. Aurbach, Adv. Energy Mater. 2016 , 6 , 1502398.
- [90] B. Song, C. Zhou, H. Wang, H. Liu, Z. Liu, M. O. Lai, L. Lu, J. Electrochem. Soc. 2014 , 161 , A1723.
- [91] X. Feng, Y. Gao, L. Ben, Z. Yang, Z. Wang, L. Chen, J. Power Sources 2016 , 317 , 74.
- [92] B. Song, M. O. Lai, L. Lu, Electrochim. Acta 2012 , 80 , 187.
- [93] J. H. Song, A. Kapylou, H. S. Choi, B. Y . Yu, E. Matulevich, S. H. Kang, J. Power Sources 2016 , 313 , 65.
- [94] H. Yan, B. Li, Z. Yu, W. Chu, D. Xia, J. Phys. Chem. C 2017 , 121 , 7155.
- [95] K. Zhang, J. Qi, J. Song, Y. Zuo, Y. Yang, T. Yang, T. Chen, X. Liu, L. Chen, D. Xia, Adv. Mater. 2022 , 34 , 2109564.

## www.advancedsciencenews.com

- [96] Y. Zhao, J. Liu, S. Wang, R. Ji, Q. Xia, Z. Ding, W. Wei, Y . Liu, P. Wang, D. G. Ivey, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2016 , 26 , 4760.
- [97] B. Li, H. Yan, J. Ma, P. Yu, D. Xia, W. Huang, W. Chu, Z. Wu, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2014 , 24 , 5112.
- [98] H.-Z. Zhang, F. Li, G.-L. Pan, G.-R. Li, X.-P. Gao, J. Electrochem. Soc. 2015 , 162 , A1899.
- [99] F. Wu, G.-T. Kim, M. Kuenzel, H. Zhang, J. Asenbauer, D. Geiger, U. Kaiser, S. Passerini, Adv. Energy Mater. 2019 , 9 , 1902445.
- [100] R. Yu, G. Wang, M. Liu, X. Zhang, X. Wang, H. Shu, X. Yang, W. Huang, J. Power Sources 2016 , 335 , 65.

[101]

Y. Wang, Z. Yang, Y. Qian, L. Gu, H. Zhou,

Adv. Mater.

2015

,

27

, 3915.

- [102] H. Chen, Q. Hu, Z. Huang, Z. He, Z. Wang, H. Guo, X. Li, Ceram. Int. 2016 , 42 , 263.
- [103] S. Dong, Y. Zhou, C. Hai, J. Zeng, Y. Sun, Y. Shen, X. Li, X. Ren, C. Sun, G. Zhang, Z. Wu, J. Power Sources 2020 , 462 , 228185.
- [104] J. Huang, H. Liu, T. Hu, Y. S. Meng, J. Luo, J. Power Sources 2018 , 375 , 21.
- [105] J. Liu, S. Wang, Z. Ding, R. Zhou, Q. Xia, J. Zhang, L. Chen, W. Wei, P. Wang, ACS Appl. Mater. &amp; Interfaces 2016 , 8 , 18008.
- [106] P. Zhang, X. Zhai, H. Huang, J. Zhou, X. Li, Y. He, Z. Guo, Ceram. Int. 2020 , 46 , 24723.
- [107] Y. Liu, D. Ning, L. Zheng, Q. Zhang, L. Gu, R. Gao, J. Zhang, A. Franz, G. Schumacher, X. Liu, J. Power Sources 2018 , 375 , 1.
- [108] R. Saroha, J. S. Cho, J.-H. Ahn, Electrochim. Acta 2021 , 366 , 137471.
- [109] G. Chen, J. An, Y. Meng, C. Yuan, B. Matthews, F. Dou, L. Shi, Y. Zhou, P. Song, G. Wu, D. Zhang, Nano Energy 2019 , 57 , 157.
- [110] B. Guo, J. Zhao, X. Fan, W. Zhang, S. Li, Z. Yang, Z. Chen, W. Zhang, Electrochim. Acta 2017 , 236 , 171.
- [111] L. Ming, B. Zhang, Y. Cao, J.-F. Zhang, C.-H. Wang, X.-W. Wang, H. Li, Front. Chem. 2018 , 6.
- [112] D. Liu, X. Fan, Z. Li, T. Liu, M. Sun, C. Qian, M. Ling, Y . Liu, C. Liang, Nano Energy 2019 , 58 , 786.
- [113] M. Choi, G. Ham, B.-S. Jin, S.-M. Lee, Y. M. Lee, G. Wang, H.-S. Kim, J. Alloys Compd. 2014 , 608 , 110.
- [114] R. Yu, Y . Lin, Z. Huang, Electrochim. Acta 2015 , 173 , 515.
- [115] B. Xiao, B. Wang, J. Liu, K. Kaliyappan, Q. Sun, Y. Liu, G. Dadheech, M. P. Balogh, L. Yang, T.-K. Sham, R. Li, M. Cai, X. Sun, Nano Energy 2017 , 34 , 120.
- [116] X.-D. Zhang, J.-L. Shi, J.-Y . Liang, Y .-X. Yin, J.-N. Zhang, X.-Q. Yu, Y.-G. Guo, Adv. Mater. 2018 , 30 , 1801751.
- [117] X. Liu, J. Liu, T. Huang, A. Yu, Electrochim. Acta 2013 , 109 , 52.
- [118] Y.-K. Sun, M.-J. Lee, C. S. Yoon, J. Hassoun, K. Amine, B. Scrosati, Adv. Mater. 2012 , 24 , 1192.
- [119] T. Li, Y . Xiao, X. Hao, Y . Li, W. Wang, Carbon 2024 , 228 , 119309.
- [120] B. Song, C. Zhou, Y. Chen, Z. Liu, M. O. Lai, J. Xue, L. Lu, RSC Adv. 2014 , 4 , 44244.
- [121] K.-C. Jiang, X.-L. Wu, Y .-X. Yin, J.-S. Lee, J. Kim, Y .-G. Guo, ACS Appl. Mater. &amp; Interfaces 2012 , 4 , 4858.
- [122] Z. Xu, X. Guo, W. Song, J. Wang, T. Qin, Y. Yuan, J. Lu, Adv. Mater. 2024 , 36 , 2303612.
- [123] L. Bao, L. Wei, N. Fu, J. Dong, L. Chen, Y. Su, N. Li, Y. Lu, Y. Li, S. Chen, F. Wu, J. Energy Chem. 2022 , 66 , 123.
- [124] X. Ding, D. Luo, J. Cui, H. Xie, Q. Ren, Z. Lin, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2020 , 59 , 7778.
- [125] Q. Li, D. Ning, D. Zhou, K. An, D. Wong, L. Zhang, Z. Chen, G. Schuck, C. Schulz, Z. Xu, G. Shumacher, X. Liu, J. Mater. Chem. A 2020 , 8 , 7733.
- [126] S. Ramakrishnan, B. Park, J. Wu, W. Yang, B. D. McCloskey, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2020 , 142 , 8522.
- [127] J. Zheng, S. Deng, Z. Shi, H. Xu, H. Xu, Y. Deng, Z. Zhang, G. Chen, J. Power Sources 2013 , 221 , 108.
- [128] J. He, W. Hua, A. Missiul, G. Melinte, C. Das, A. Tayal, T. Bergfeldt, S. Mangold, X. Liu, J. R. Binder, M. Knapp, H. Ehrenberg, S. Indris, B. Schwarz, J. Maibach, J. Mater. Chem. A 2021 , 9 , 264.

Adv. Mater. 2025 , 37 , 2410006

www.advmat.de

- [129] P. Liu, H. Zhang, W. He, T. Xiong, Y. Cheng, Q. Xie, Y. Ma, H. Zheng, L. Wang, Z.-Z. Zhu, Y. Peng, L. Mai, D.-L. Peng, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2019 , 141 , 10876.
- [130] B. Qiu, M. Zhang, L. Wu, J. Wang, Y. Xia, D. Qian, H. Liu, S. Hy, Y. Chen, K. An, Y. Zhu, Z. Liu, Y. S. Meng, Nat. Commun. 2016 , 7 , 12108.
- [131] Y. Wang, L. Wang, X. Guo, T. Wu, Y. Yang, B. Wang, E. Wang, H. Yu, ACS Appl. Mater. &amp; Interfaces 2020 , 12 , 8306.
- [132] W. He, F. Ye, J. Lin, Q. Wang, Q. Xie, F. Pei, C. Zhang, P. Liu, X. Li, L. Wang, B. Qu, D.-L. Peng, Nano-Micro Lett. 2021 , 13 , 205.
- [133] Z. Xu, Y. Yuan, Q. Tang, X. Nie, J. Li, Q. Sun, N. Ci, Z. Xi, G. Han, L. Ci, G. Min, Carbon Energy 2023 , 5 , e332.
- [134] Z. Li, S. Cao, X. Xie, C. Wu, H. Li, B. Chang, G. Chen, X. Guo, X. Zhang, X. Wang, ACS Appl. Mater. &amp; Interfaces 2021 , 13 , 53974.
- [135] J. Zhao, X. Zhang, Y. Liang, Z. Han, S. Liu, W. Chu, H. Yu, ACS Energy Lett. 2021 , 6 , 2552.
- [136] M. Metzger, P. Walke, S. Solchenbach, G. Salitra, D. Aurbach, H. A. Gasteiger, J. Electrochem. Soc. 2020 , 167 , 160522.
- [137] J. Li, Z. Wang, J. Power Sources 2020 , 450 , 227648.
- [138] A. Birrozzi, N. Laszczynski, M. Hekmatfar, J. von Zamory, G. A. Gi/uniFB03n, S. Passerini, J. Power Sources 2016 , 325 , 525.
- [139] J.-G. Han, J. B. Lee, A. Cha, T. K. Lee, W. Cho, S. Chae, S. J. Kang, S. K. Kwak, J. Cho, S. Y. Hong, N.-S. Choi, Energy &amp; Environ. Sci. 2018 , 11 , 1552.
- [140] J.-G. Han, S. J. Lee, J. Lee, J.-S. Kim, K. T. Lee, N.-S. Choi, ACS Appl. Mater. &amp; Interfaces 2015 , 7 , 8319.
- [141] J. Pires, A. Castets, L. Timperman, J. Santos-Peña, E. Dumont, S. Levasseur, C. Tessier, R. Dedryvère, M. Anouti, J. Power Sources 2015 , 296 , 413.
- [142] S. Tan, Z. Zhang, Y. Li, Y . Li, J. Zheng, Z. Zhou, Y . Yang, J. Electrochem. Soc. 2013 , 160 , A285.
- [143] Y. Li, K. Wang, J. Chen, W. Zhang, X. Luo, Z. Hu, Q. Zhang, L. Xing, W. Li, ACS Appl. Mater. &amp; Interfaces 2020 , 12 , 28169.
- [144] J. Lan, Q. Zheng, H. Zhou, J. Li, L. Xing, K. Xu, W. Fan, L. Yu, W. Li, ACS Appl. Mater. &amp; Interfaces 2019 , 11 , 28841.
- [145] D. Song, X. Sun, Q. Niu, Q. Zhao, C. Wang, L. Yang, Y. Wu, M. Li, T. Ohsaka, F. Matsumotoc, J. Wu, ACS Appl. Mater. &amp; Interfaces 2020 , 12 , 49666.
- [146] Y. Li, W. Li, R. Shimizu, D. Cheng, H. Nguyen, J. Paulsen, S. Kumakura, M. Zhang, Y. S. Meng, Adv. Energy Mater. 2022 , 12 , 2103033.
- [147] L. Wang, Y. Ma, Q. Li, Z. Zhou, X. Cheng, P. Zuo, C. Du, Y. Gao, G. Yin, J. Power Sources 2017 , 361 , 227.
- [148] J. Zhao, Y. Liang, X. Zhang, Z. Zhang, E. Wang, S. He, B. Wang, Z. Han, J. Lu, K. Amine, H. Yu, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2021 , 31 , 2009192.
- [149] P. Ding, Z. Lin, X. Guo, L. Wu, Y. Wang, H. Guo, L. Li, H. Yu, Mater. Today 2021 , 51 , 449.
- [150] J. Zhang, J. Gai, K. Song, W. Chen, Cell Rep. Phys. Sci. 2022 , 3 , 100868.
- [151] Y. Wu, K. Zhou, F. Ren, Y. Ha, Z. Liang, X. Zheng, Z. Wang, W. Yang, M. Zhang, M. Luo, C. Battaglia, W. Yang, L. Zhu, Z. Gong, Y. Yang, Energy &amp; Environ. Sci. 2022 , 15 , 3470.
- [152] Y. Wang, D. Wu, P. Chen, P. Lu, X. Wang, L. Chen, H. Li, F. Wu, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2024 , 34 , 2309822.
- [153] X. Xu, S. Chu, S. Xu, S. Guo, H. Zhou, Energy &amp; Environ. Sci. 2024 , 17 , 3052.
- [154] W. Du, Q. Shao, Y. Wei, C. Yan, P. Gao, Y. Lin, Y. Jiang, Y . Liu, X. Yu, M. Gao, W. Sun, H. Pan, ACS Energy Lett. 2022 , 7 , 3006.
- [155] S. Sun, C.-Z. Zhao, H. Yuan, Z.-H. Fu, X. Chen, Y. Lu, Y.-F. Li, J.-K. Hu, J. Dong, J.-Q. Huang, M. Ouyang, Q. Zhang, Sci. Adv. 2022 , 8 , eadd5189.
- [156] R. Yu, C. Wang, H. Duan, M. Jiang, A. Zhang, A. Fraser, J. Zuo, Y. Wu, Y. Sun, Y. Zhao, J. Liang, J. Fu, S. Deng, Z. Ren, G. Li, H. Huang,

## www.advancedsciencenews.com

- R. Li, N. Chen, J. Wang, X. Li, C. V. Singh, X. Sun, Adv. Mater. 2023 , 35 , 2207234.
- [157] A. Zhang, J. Wang, R. Yu, H. Zhuo, C. Wang, Z. Ren, J. Wang, ACS Appl. Mater. &amp; Interfaces 2023 , 15 , 8190.
- [158] D. Liu, J. Yang, Z. Fang, T. Feng, Z. Xu, X. Liu, M. Wu, Chem. Eng. J. 2023 , 470 , 144404.
- [159] B. Chen, J. Zhang, D. Wong, T. Wang, T. Li, C. Liu, L. Sun, X. Liu, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2024 , 63 , e202315856.
- [160] Y. Zheng, M. Hirayama, S. Taminato, S. Lee, Y. Oshima, K. Takayanagi, K. Suzuki, R. Kanno, J. Power Sources 2015 , 300 , 413.
- [161] X. Yin, D. Li, L. Hao, Y . Wang, Y . Wang, X. Guo, S. Zhao, B. Wang, L. Wu, H. Yu, Chem. Commun. 2023 , 59 , 639.

www.advmat.de

- [162] Q. Zhang, D. Cao, Y. Ma, A. Natan, P. Aurora, H. Zhu, Adv. Mater. 2019 , 31 , 1901131.
- [163] Y. Nikodimos, W.-N. Su, B. J. Hwang, Adv. Energy Mater. 2023 , 13 , 2202854.
- [164] M. Sakakura, K. Mitsuishi, T. Okumura, N. Ishigaki, Y. Iriyama, ACS Appl. Mater. &amp; Interfaces 2022 , 14 , 48547.
- [165] R. Fang, Y. Liu, Y . Li, A. Manthiram, J. B. Goodenough, Mater. Today 2023 , 64 , 52.
- [166] W.-J. Kong, C.-Z. Zhao, S. Sun, L. Shen, X.-Y. Huang, P. Xu, Y. Lu, W.-Z. Huang, J.-Q. Huang, Q. Zhang, Adv. Mater. 2024 , 36 , 2310738.

QiqiangHuang obtainedhismaster'sdegreein2023fromtheSchoolofMaterialsandEnergyatYunnanUniversity. Currently, he is a Ph.D. candidate at the School of Electronic Science and Engineering (SchoolofMicroelectronics) of South China Normal University, also an exchange Ph.D. student in Prof. Xiang Liu's group at Beihang University. His research mainly focuses on advanced cathode materials for high-performance lithium-ion batteries and solid-state batteries.

XinmanChen workedattheSchoolofElectronicScienceandEngineering(SchoolofMicroelectronics) of South China Normal University (SCNU), and a Ph.D. from Sun Yat-sen University (SYSU) in 2009, with a Doctor of Science (D.Sc.) degree. In recent years, he has published more than 80 SCI papers in important international academic journals and applied for more than 20 national invention patents.

LanguangLu is an associate professor and a core member of Academician Ouyang Minggao's team at the School of Vehicles and Mobility, Tsinghua University. His interesting research fields include allsolid-state batteries and the integration, optimization, and control of automotive new powertrain systems.Hehasmorethan100academicpapers,1book,and83patents.Hehasreceived5Technology Awards.

## www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.advmat.de

DongshengRen is now an Assistant Professor at the School of Vehicles and Transportation, at TsinghuaUniversity. He received his B.E. (2014) and Ph.D. (2020) degree in the School of Vehicle and Mobility, at Tsinghua University. His research focuses on failure analysis and rational design of solidstate batteries, and electrochemical/thermal modeling of lithium-ion batteries.

MinggaoOuyang is a professor at Tsinghua University and an Academician of the Chinese Academy of Sciences. Prof. Ouyang is the leader of the New Energy Powertrain System Group at Tsinghua University, where he has been dedicated to the research of New Energy Power Systems and Transportation Electrification. From 2007 to 2021, Prof. Ouyang was the chief scientist of the China National Key R&amp;D ProgramofNewEnergyVehiclesandhasmadesignificantcontributionstotheworld-leadingdevelopmentofnewenergyvehiclesinChina.

XiangLiu is a full professor in the Department of Material Science and Engineering at Beihang University. He received his Ph.D. degree from the University of Hong Kong and worked as a postdoc researcher at Tsinghua University and Argonne National Laboratory. His research is focused on the advancedcharacterizations for battery materials and battery safety, and also the development of novel cathodeandsolid-state electrolytes for all-solid-state batteries.