## Mechano-Electrochemical Behavior of Nanostructured Liand Mn-Rich Layered Oxides with Superior Capacity Retention and Voltage Decay for Sulfide-Based All-Solid-State Batteries

Gawon Song, Suyeon Lee, Taehun Kim, Min Soo Jung, Kanghyeon Kim, Seung Hyun Choi, Seunghyun Lee, Junsung Park, Minseon Lee, Chanhwi Park, Mi-Sook Kwon, and Kyu Tae Lee*

Li- and Mn-rich layered oxides (LMROs) are recognized as promising cathode materials for lithium-ion batteries (LIBs) due to their high specific capacity and cost e/uniFB03ciency. However, LMROs encounter challenges such as manganese dissolution in electrolytes and the release of oxygen gas from irreversible oxygen redox reactions, leading to structural degradation and voltage decay that reduce energy density. Consequently, recent research has shifted toward employing LMROs in all-solid-state batteries (ASSBs), where Mn dissolution is negligible. Herein, nanostructured LMROs demonstrate superior electrochemical compatibility with sulfide-based solid electrolytes in ASSBs compared to conventional LIBs. Nanostructured LMRO exhibits outstanding capacity retention (97.1% after 1300 cycles at 30 ° C) with significantly suppressed voltage decay. Furthermore, the initial electrochemical activation of Li 2 MnO3 domains within LMRO is explored in terms of the mechano-electrochemical interactions in the composite cathode. At elevated temperatures, interfacial degradation accelerates due to the chemical oxidation of Li 6 PS 5 Cl solid electrolytes, driven by oxygen released from LMRO. To address this, LMRO surfaces are modified with thioglycolic acid through esterification, suppressing interfacial degradation of Li 6 PS 5 Cl and ensuring stable capacity retention over 500 cycles at 60 ° C. These findings underscore the potential of LMRO materials as promising cathode options for ASSBs, surpassing those used in LIBs.

G. Song, S. Lee, T. Kim, M. S. Jung, K. Kim, S. H. Choi, S. Lee, J. Park, M. Lee, K. T. Lee

School of Chemical and Biological Engineering

Institute of Chemical Processes

Institute of Engineering Research

Seoul National University

1-Gwanak-ro, Gwanak-gu, Seoul 08826, Republic of Korea

E-mail: ktlee@snu.ac.kr

C. Park, M.-S. Kwon

NextGenerationBatteryR&amp;DO/uniFB03ce

SKOn,Expo-ro325,Daejeon34124,RepublicofKorea

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202403374

DOI: 10.1002/aenm.202403374

Adv. Energy Mater. 2024 , 14 , 2403374

## 1. Introduction

Liand Mn-rich layered oxides (LMROs) have been extensively investigated as promising cathode materials for lithium-ion batteries (LIBs) due to their exceptionally high specific capacity of over 250 mA h g -1 , combined with cost e/uniFB03ciency from the high incorporation of earth-abundant manganese. [1] LMRO materials possess a unique crystal structure, forming a nanocomposite or solidsolution of layered LiNi 1-x-yCoxMnyO2 (space group: R -3m ) and Li2MnO3 (space group: C2/m ). [ 2] Their high reversible capacity originates from Li2MnO3 in LMRO. [3] The electrochemical activation of Li2MnO3 during charging above 4.4 V (vs Li/Li + ) enables the delivery of high capacity through the reversible redox reactions of both transition metal and oxygen. [4] For this reason, the activation process of Li 2 MnO3 is critical for achieving high energy density. [ 5] Despite these promising aspects, LMROs face challenging issues, such as Mn dissolution in electrolytes [ 6] and oxygen gas evolution due to irreversible oxygen redox reactions. [ 7] These issues lead to significant electrolyte decomposition [ 8] and structural degradation from layered to spinel structures. [ 9] Moreover, this degradation behavior gives rise to voltage decay during cycling, resulting in a decrease in energy density. [ 10]

To address these challenges, recent research has shifted focus to exploring LMROs for use in all-solid-state batteries (ASSBs), where Mn dissolution is less of an issue due to the insoluble nature of Mn in solid electrolytes. [ 11] Recently, a few studies have investigated the electrochemical performance of LMROs for ASSBs with various solid electrolytes, including oxide, [ 12] sulfide [ 13] and halide [14] -based electrolytes. LMROs are considered more suitable for halide-based solid electrolytes [ 14c] because they are known to be more oxidatively stable above 4.6 V (vs Li/Li + )

www.advancedsciencenews.com compared to sulfide-based electrolytes. [ 15] Only a few literatures have shown promising electrochemical performance of LMROs in sulfide-based electrolytes, typically with the aid of surface modification, [ 13] due to their narrow electrochemical stability window. [16] In addition, the operation of LMROs in sulfide-based electrolytes is suggested to be challenging due to inferior kinetics of the Li 2 MnO3 domain [17] and the accompanying oxygen evolution from its activation, which degrades the cathode - solid electrolyte interface. [ 18] Moreover, the interfacial reaction behavior and degradation mechanisms of LMROs in ASSBs remain ambiguous, although the cell performance of LMROs has been considered promising. [13]

In this paper, we demonstrated a comprehensive understanding of electrochemical compatibility of LMRO with sulfide-based solid electrolytes for ASSBs. The electrochemical performance of LMRO in sulfide-based ASSBs exceeded that in LIBs, achieving excellent capacity retention over 97.1% after 1300 cycles at a rate of 0.5C at 30 ° C. LMRO in ASSBs exhibited significantly suppressed structural degradation from layered to spinel phase during cycling along with mitigated voltage decay compared to LMRO in LIBs. We also investigated the electrochemical activation of Li 2 MnO3 domains in LMRO during the initial cycles in terms of the electro-mechanical evolution of the composite cathode. In addition, interfacial degradation between Li 6 PS5 Cl (LPSCl) and LMRO was more pronounced at elevated temperatures due to the chemical oxidation of LPSCl driven by oxygen gas evolution from LMRO. To address this issue, we introduced a surface-regulated LMRO, conformally tethered with thioglycolic acid (thio-GA) through esterification. The thio-GA layer suppressed the chemical oxidation of LPSCl at elevated temperatures, thus improving electrochemical performance at 60 ° C, with a stable capacity retention of 86.4% after 500 cycles.

## 2. Result and Discussion

## 2.1. Mechano-Electrochemical Behavior of LMROs: Co-Precipitation Versus Sol-Gel Methods

We prepared two distinct LMRO materials of Li 1.2 Ni 0.13 Co0.13 Mn0.54O2 (equivalent to 0.5 LiNi 1/3 Co1/3 Mn1/3O2 · 0.5 Li2MnO3) with di/uniFB00ering morphologies. Micrometer-sized spherical LMRO powders (denoted as M-LMRO) were obtained through a co-precipitation method ( Figure 1 a), whereas nanostructured LMRO powders (denoted as N-LMRO) were synthesized using a sol-gel process (Figure 1b). Both types of LMRO materials were monodisperse and discrete, as shown in their particle size distributions (Figure S1, Supporting Information). The TEM and EDSmapping images of N-LMRO nanopowders (Figure S2, Supporting Information) revealed a homogeneous distribution of Ni, Co, and Mn elements, confirming the uniform composition of Li 1.2 Ni 0.13 Co0.13 Mn0.54 O2. The powder XRD patterns of both MLMRO and N-LMRO, displayed in Figure 1c, prominently featured the characteristic peaks of the Li 2 MnO3 superstructure at ≈ 21 ° , indicating a consistent LMRO structure. [2] Both M-LMRO and N-LMRO were evaluated as cathode materials for sulfidebased ASSBs. ASSB cells were fabricated with a composite cathode pellet comprising LMRO, vapor-grown carbon fiber (VGCF), and LPSCl argyrodite; an LPSCl solid electrolyte pellet; and a LiIn alloy foil. The electronic and ionic conductivities of LPSCl for

Adv. Energy Mater. 2024 , 14 , 2403374

www.advenergymat.de various temperatures are presented in Figure S3 (Supporting Information). The cells (LMRO | LPSCl | Li-In) were charged and discharged at temperatures of 30 and 60 ° C in a voltage range of 1.38 - 3.98 V (vs In/Li-In), equivalent to 2.0 - 4.6 V (vs Li/Li + ). Figure 1d,e compares the voltage profiles of M-LMRO and NLMRO after formation cycles. At a 0.05 C rate, M-LMRO delivered a limited reversible capacity, under 150 mA h g -1 even at 60 ° C. In contrast, N-LMRO exhibited significantly higher reversible capacities (251 mA h g -1 at 30 ° C and 287 mA h g -1 at 60 ° C), comparable to those of conventional LMROs in Li-ion batteries with a liquid electrolyte. [ 19] This disparity in performance between M-LMRO and N-LMRO is attributed to the di/uniFB00erences in mechanical contact between LMRO and LPSCl powders, influencing di/uniFB00usion lengths. [ 20] The M-LMRO powders possess a polycrystalline structure with primary and secondary particles measuring hundreds of nanometers and tens of micrometers, respectively. Unlike liquid electrolytes, solid electrolytes are unable to infiltrate the internal voids of M-LMRO. Consequently, the effective di/uniFB00usion length for M-LMRO mirrors that of its secondary particles -tens of micrometers -even though its primary particles are only a few hundred nanometers in size. This extended di/uniFB00usion length leads to substantial mass transfer resistance, diminishing the reversible capacity. [ 21] In contrast, the nanosized, monodisperse, and discrete N-LMRO powders achieve close contact with the LPSCl, resulting in relatively short di/uniFB00usion lengths and enhanced performance.

Figure 1f,g compare the cycle performance and Coulombic efficiency of N-LMRO in both ASSBs and LIBs at rates of 0.1C and 0.5C, respectively, at 30 ° C. The LIB cells were assembled using a composite cathode of LMRO, a Li metal foil anode, and a liquid electrolyte consisting of 1 m LiPF 6 in EC:DMC = 1:1 (v/v). For the ASSBs, the cells underwent 10 formation cycles to fully activate the Li 2 MnO3 domains, a topic that will be discussed later. Both ASSB and LIB cells achieved similar reversible capacities (246 and 248 mA h g -1 , respectively) in a voltage range of 1.38 3.98 V (vs In/Li-In) or 2.0 - 4.6 V (vs Li/Li + ) under the condition of a 0.1 C rate and 30 ° C. At a 0.5C rate, the LIB cells (240 mA h g -1 ) exhibited a higher reversible capacity than the ASSB cells (183 mA h g -1 ), attributed to better contact at the LMRO-liquid electrolyte interface in LIBs compared to the LMRO-LPSCl interface in ASSBs. However, N-LMRO displayed remarkably stable capacity retention and high Coulombic e/uniFB03ciency in ASSBs compared to LIBs. At a 0.5 C rate, N-LMRO showed negligible capacity fading over 1300 cycles in ASSBs, maintaining 97.1% of initial capacity, whereas its cycle performance was significantly poorer in LIBs, with only 68.9% of capacity retention after 100 cycles. Moreover, the voltage decay during cycling, a significant challenge of LMROs in LIBs, was significantly reduced in ASSBs compared to LIBs, as demonstrated in their voltage profiles at 0.5C (Figure 1h,i) and 0.1C (Figure S4, Supporting Information) rates. The average voltages during charging and discharging as a function of cycle number for ASSBs and LIBs are also compared in Figure S5 (Supporting Information). The improved electrochemical behavior of N-LMRO in ASSBs is predominantly due to negligible Mn dissolution in solid electrolytes. [ 13a] In contrast to LIBs, ASSBs suppressed the structural degradation of LMRO driven by Mn dissolution and prevented degradation caused by crosstalk of electrolyte decomposition products, [22] resulting in superior cycle performance compared to LIBs. Figure 1j and Table S1

www.advancedsciencenews.com

Figure 1. SEM images of a) M-LMRO and b) N-LMRO powders. Insets show their corresponding magnified images. c) XRD patterns of M-LMRO and N-LMROpowders. Voltage profiles of d) M-LRMO and e) N-LMRO at 0.05C in a voltage range of 1.38 - 3.98 V (vs In/Li-In) at 30 and 60 ° Cafter formation cycles. Cycle performances and Coulombic e/uniFB03ciencies of N-LMRO in ASSBs and LIBs at (f) 0.1 C and (g) 0.5 C rates in a voltage range of 1.38 - 3.98 V (vs In/Li-In) at 30 ° C after formation cycles. h) Voltage profiles and (i) corresponding normalized discharge profiles of N-LMRO in ASSBs and LIBs at 0.5 C in a voltage range of 1.38 - 3.98 V (vs In/Li-In) at 30 ° C. j) Comparison of the electrochemical performances of LMROs in ASSBs with various solid electrolytes at room temperature, as reported in previous literature. [ 12-14] The numbers in brackets refer to the reference numbers. Detailed cell performance data from these references are compiled in Table S1 (Supporting Information).

www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.advenergymat.de

Figure 2. a) Cycle performance and Coulombic e/uniFB03ciency of N-LMRO in ASSBs at 0.5C in a voltage range of 1.38 - 3.98 V (vs In/Li-In) at 60 ° C. b) Normalized discharge profiles N-LMRO in ASSBs at the first and 200 th cycles, operated at 0.5C at 30 and 60 ° C. Changes in the discharge dQ/dV plots of N-LMRO in ASSBs over 200 cycles at 0.5C at (c) 30 and (d) 60 ° C. e) Ex situ XRD patterns of pristine N-LMRO and cycled N-LMRO composite cathodes, retrieved in a fully discharged state (1.38 V vs In/Li-In) after 200 cycles at 30 and 60 ° C. Mn K-edge (f) XANES and (g) k 3 -weighted Fourier transform magnitudes of EXAFS spectra of pristine N-LMRO and cycled N-LMRO composite cathodes, retrieved in a fully discharged state (1.38 V vs In/Li-In) after 200 cycles at 30 and 60 ° C.

(Supporting Information) summarizes the electrochemical performances of LMROs for ASSBs with various solid electrolytes reported in previous literature, highlighting the excellent cycle performance of our nanostructured LMRO with LPSCl. [12-14]

## 2.2. Voltage Decay Behavior of LMRO in ASSBs Depending on Operating Temperatures

To demonstrate the suppressed voltage decay behavior of NLMRO during cycling, we compared the structural degradation of N-LMRO at 30 and 60 ° C. Figures 2 a and S6 (Supporting Information) show the cycle performance and corresponding voltage profiles of N-LMRO | LPSCl | Li-In in a voltage range of 1.38 -

3.98 V (vs In/Li-In) under the operating conditions of a 0.5C rate and 60 ° C. The cells underwent five formation cycles to fully activate the Li 2 MnO3 domains, a topic that will be discussed later. At 60 ° C, N-LMRO delivered a higher capacity of 268 mA h g -1 compared to 183 mA h g -1 at a 0.5 C rate and 30 ° C. N-LMRO also exhibited better rate performance at 60 ° Cthan at 30 ° C(Figure S7, Supporting Information). However, at 60 ° C, N-LMRO exhibited slight capacity loss after the initial 100 cycles, during which capacity fading was trivial. The capacity fading at elevated temperature was due to the oxidation of the LPSCl surface, driven by oxygen gas evolution from N-LMRO during cycling; this will also be discussed later. Nevertheless, the electrochemical performance of NLMRO in ASSBs at 60 ° C was superior to that in LIBs, as shown in Figure S8 (Supporting Information). Figure 2b compares the

www.advancedsciencenews.com normalized voltage profiles of N-LMRO at 30 and 60 ° Cin ASSBs for the first and 200 th cycles, revealing that slight voltage decay occurred at 60 ° C, while negligible voltage decay was observed at 30 ° C. These comparative behaviors are clearly illustrated in the dQ/dV plots of discharge for various cycle numbers (Figure 2c,d). The di/uniFB00erential voltage peaks of N-LMRO remained almost unchanged at 30 ° C, whereas at 60 ° C, they shifted to lower voltages during cycling.

The distinct voltage decay behaviors at 30 and 60 ° C were attributed to their di/uniFB00ering structural degradation during cycling. A series of structural analyses were conducted on pristine NLMROand cycled N-LMRO electrodes, which were retrieved in a fully discharged state (1.38 V vs In/Li-In) after 200 cycles at 30 and 60 ° C. Figure S9 (Supporting Information) and Figure 2e display the ex situ XRD patterns of pristine N-LMRO and cycled N-LMRO electrodes, covering the full 2 /u1D703 ranges of 10 -80 ° and the selected 2 /u1D703 ranges, respectively. The spinel phase, evidenced by the (400) s peak at 45.5 ° , [ 23,24] was clearly visible after cycling and was more pronounced at 60 ° C. This suggests that the more pronounced voltage decay at 60 ° C correlates with the formation of the spinel phase during cycling, as the redox potential of the spinel structure is known to be lower than that of the layered structure. [ 9a] While only a marginal di/uniFB00erence in the peak position of (003) L was observed for pristine N-LMRO and cycled N-LMRO electrodes, the (101) L and (104) L peaks shifted to lower 2 /u1D703 , indicating lattice expansion along the a-axis, with a greater extent at 60 ° C. [25] In addition, the relative intensity ratio of the (003) L to (104) L peak (I (003) / I (104) ), a parameter reflecting cation disorder, [ 26,27] decreased after cycling, implying increased cation mixing. The distinct structural degradation at 30 and 60 ° C was further probed by Mn K-edge Xray absorption fine structure (XAFS) analysis. Figure 2f shows the X-ray absorption near edge spectroscopy (XANES) spectra of pristine N-LMRO and cycled N-LMRO electrodes. At a pristine state, the pre-edge peak located between 6540 -6545 eV forms a well-separated doublet, suggesting that Mn predominantly exists as Mn 4 + . [ 28] After 200 cycles, the doublet maintained almost unchanged at 30 ° C. However, it became ambiguous at 60 ° C. We also observed a shift in the XANES edge to a lower value after cycling, with the extent of this shift being greater at 60 ° C than at 30 ° C. These changes in XANES at 30 and 60 ° C imply a more pronounced oxidation state change of Mn from Mn 4 + to Mn 3 + /Mn 2 + after cycling at 60 ° C. Extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis was also performed to demonstrate the local structural changes in LMRO after cycling. Figure 2g shows the k 3 -weighted Fourier transform magnitudes of the Mn K-edge EXAFS spectra for pristine N-LMRO and cycled N-LMRO electrodes. The intensity of the Mn-O (first shell) at ≈ 1.4 Å significantly decreased after cycling at both 30 and 60 ° C, revealing substantial oxygen loss due to irreversible anion redox reactions. [ 29] The intensity of Mn-TM (second shell) at ≈ 2.5 Å remained almost unchanged after cycling at 30 ° C, whereas it significantly decreased after cycling at 60 ° C. The decrease in the Mn-TM intensity is attributed to the increased extent of cation disorder and the reduced coordination number resulting from the formation of a spinel phase. [30,31] The XAFS analysis corroborates with the ex situ XRD analysis, which shows a more pronounced formation of the spinel phase at 60 ° C. As a result, the voltage decay was more pronounced during cycling at 60 ° C compared to 30 ° C.

Adv. Energy Mater. 2024 , 14 , 2403374

www.advenergymat.de

## 2.3. Role of Interface in the Electrochemical Activation of Li 2 MnO3 Domains Within LMROs for ASSBs

LMRO cathode materials are known to undergo electrochemical activation during the initial charging process, as illustrated below: [3,32]

- 0 . 5 LiNi 1/3 Co1/3 Mn1/3O2 · 0.5 Li2MnO3
- → 0.5 Li 1-x Ni 1/3 Co1/3 Mn1/3O2 · 0.5 Li2MnO3 + x Li + + x e -: in a voltage range of 2.0 - 4.4 V versus Li/Li + (First step)
- →
- 0.5 Li 1-x-y Ni 1/3 Co1/3 Mn1/3O2 · 0.5 Li 2-z MnO3-2 /u1D6FC + /u1D6FC O2 + (y + z) Li +
+ (y + z) e -: in a voltage range of 4.4 - 4.6 V versus Li/Li + (Second step)

In the second step, Li2MnO3 is delithiated to form Li 2-z MnO3-2 /u1D6FC , a process that is more sluggish compared to the first step. [ 33,34] For this reason, the electrochemical activation of large LMRO particles typically completes after several cycles even in LIBs. [35] Moreover, since the reversible lithiation and delithiation of Li 2-z MnO3-2 /u1D6FC contributes to delivering the high reversible capacity of LMROs, the degree of the electrochemical activation of Li2MnO3 determines the specific capacity of LMROs. [36] Consequently, the reversible capacity of large LMROs gradually increases with the number of cycles, as the electrochemical activation continues during the initial cycles. [ 37]

We compared the electrochemical activation behaviors of Li 2 MnO3 in N-LMRO for LIBs and ASSBs. Figure 3 a,b shows the voltage profiles of N-LMRO during formation cycles at 30 ° C for LIBs and ASSBs, respectively, carried out at a 0.05C rate. The corresponding Coulombic e/uniFB03ciencies are presented in Figure S10 (Supporting Information). Since N-LMRO powders are considerably small, just a few hundred nanometers in size, LIBs completed the electrochemical activation of Li2MnO3 in N-LMRO during the first cycle, reaching the highest discharge capacity initially, despite the process being inherently sluggish. In contrast to LIBs, the reversible capacity of N-LMRO in ASSBs increased gradually with cycle numbers, achieving the highest reversible capacity by the tenth cycle. This suggests that electrochemical activation of LMRO is slower in ASSBs than in LIBs. Figure 3c shows the voltage profiles of N-LMRO during formation cycles at 60 ° C for ASSBs, where complete activation was achieved by the fifth cycle. This indicates that higher temperatures can alleviate the sluggish kinetics of Li 2 MnO3 activation, allowing for complete activation in fewer cycles.

Ex situ XRD and XANES analyses were performed to demonstrate the structural evolution of Li2MnO3 in N-LMRO, driven by electrochemical activation during formation in ASSBs. Figure S11 (Supporting Information) and Figure 3d exhibit the ex situ XRD patterns of pristine N-LMRO and N-LMRO electrodes retrieved in fully charged and discharged states from LIBs and ASSBs during formation cycles at 60 ° C, covering the full 2 /u1D703 range of 10 -80 ° and the selected 2 /u1D703 range of 18.0 -19.5 ° , respectively. The (003) L peak of N-LMRO shifted to lower 2 /u1D703 values after full charge and reversed to higher 2 /u1D703 values after full discharge. [ 38] However, the irreversible loss of lattice oxygen during the electrochemical activation of Li 2 MnO3 results in significant di/uniFB00erences in the XRD patterns between pristine and fully discharged N-LMRO. [39,40] Specifically, the (003) L peak of fully discharged N-LMRO shifted to a slightly lower 2 /u1D703 compared to

www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.advenergymat.de

Figure 3. Voltage profiles N-LMRO in a voltage range of 2.0 - 4.6 V (vs Li/Li + ) and 1.38 - 3.98 V (vs In/Li-In) at a rate of 0.05C for various formation cycles: a) in LIBs at 30 ° C, b) in ASSBs at 30 ° C, and c) in ASSBs at 60 ° C. Changes in the ex situ d) XRD patterns, (e) Mn K-edge XANES spectra, f) Co K-edge XANES spectra, and g) Ni K-edge XANES spectra of pristine N-LMRO and cycled N-LMRO during formation cycles in a voltage range 2.0 - 4.6 V (vs Li/Li + ) or 1.38 - 3.98 V (vs In/Li-In) at a rate of 0.05 C at 60 ° C in LIBs and ASSBs, retrieved at fully charged (4.6 V vs Li/Li + and 3.98 V vs In/Li-In, respectively) and fully discharged (2.0 V vs Li/Li + and 1.38 V vs In/Li-In, respectively) states.

that of pristine N-LMRO. In LIBs, since the electrochemical activation of N-LMRO is completed in the first cycle (Figure 3a), the ex situ XRD pattern after the first cycle reflects the structural status of N-LMRO after complete activation. For the ex situ XRD analysis of N-LMRO in ASSBs, the (003) L peak at both charged anddischarged states shifts to greater extent with increasing cycle numbers. Eventually, after five cycles, it reached the same XRD peak positions as those observed in N-LMRO after complete activation in LIBs, aligning with the changes observed in the voltage profiles during formation cycles (Figure 3c).

The same structural evolution behavior of N-LMRO during formation was observed in ex situ XANES analysis. Figure 3e-g compare the Mn, Co, and Ni K-edge XANES spectra of pristine NLMROandN-LMROelectrodes retrieved at fully charged and discharged states in LIBs and ASSBs during formation cycles. Negligible di/uniFB00erences were observed in the Co and Ni K-edge XANES spectra of the N-LMRO electrodes between LIBs and ASSBs at both fully charged and discharged states, regardless of the number of formation cycles. This indicates that the NCM domains in N-LMRO were fully delithiated and lithiated during charging and discharging from the initial cycle. [ 41,42] In contrast, gradual changes were noted in the Mn K-edge XANES spectra of the NLMRO electrodes retrieved at both fully charged and discharged states in ASSBs during formation cycles. Eventually, the spectra obtained at the fifth cycle in ASSBs were almost identical to those from the first cycle in LIBs. This reveals that the structural evolution of Li 2 MnO3 into Li 2-z MnO3-2 /u1D6FC occurred gradually during formation cycles, [ 28] which is coincident with their voltage profiles and ex situ XRD patterns during precycling.

To scrutinize the slower kinetics of electrochemical activation for N-LMRO in ASSBs compared to LIBs, we performed in situ di/uniFB00erential electrochemical pressiometry (DEP) analysis on N-LMRO for ASSBs. A decrease in cell pressure during cycling in ASSBs leads to poorer contact between the cathode material and LPSCl powders, thereby increasing the interfacial resistance. [ 43,44] For this reason, changes in the cell pressure of LMRO in ASSBs can a/uniFB00ect the electrochemical activation kinetics of LMRO. Figure 4 a shows the in situ cell pressure profiles of

16146840, 2024, 47, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/aenm.202403374 by Yonsei University Library, Wiley Online Library on [21/04/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Figure 4. a) In situ cell pressure profiles of N-LMRO | LPSCl | Li 4 Ti 5 O12 during five formation cycles in a voltage range of 0.45 - 3.05 V (vs Li 4 Ti 5 O12 /Li 7 Ti 5 O12 ) at a rate of 0.05 C at 60 ° C, measured using di/uniFB00erential electrochemical pressiometry. Average pressure changes during each charge and discharge from the 2 nd to the 5 th cycles are presented as an inset. b) The initial voltage profiles and c) specific capacity of N-LMRO | LPSCl | Li-In during five formation cycles in a voltage range of 1.38 - 3.98 V (vs In/Li-In) at a rate of 0.05 C at 60 ° C in ASSBs for various cell pressures. d) Nyquist plots of N-LMRO | LPSCl | Li-In at 3.38 V (vs In/Li-In) after four formation cycles under various cell pressures. Voltage profiles of LNO-N-LMRO | LPSCl | Li-In for five formation cycles at (e) 30 ° C and (f) 60 ° C. Changes in specific capacity of bare N-LMRO and LNO-N-LMRO during formation cycles at (g) 30 ° C and (h) 60 ° C.

www.advancedsciencenews.com

N-LMRO|LPSCl|Li4Ti5 O12 during five formation cycles at 60 ° C, and the corresponding average changes in cell pressure between fully charged and discharged states for charge and discharge steps. Zero-strain Li 4 Ti 5 O12 was used as the anode material to minimize the contribution of the anode to the overall pressure change during cycling. [45,46] A pressure drop of 0.53 MPa was measured during the initial charge, indicating significant volume contraction in the composite cathode of N-LMRO. After the initial charge, reversible pressure changes of ≈ 0.11 -0.12 MPa were observed during subsequent charge and discharge. The significant irreversible pressure loss during the initial cycle can be ascribed to irreversible electrochemical reactions, such as oxidation of the LPSCl surface and oxygen loss from N-LMRO, during the initial charge. The cell pressure drop during the initial charge was divided into three voltage regions: (i) a steep slope below 3.9 V (vs Li/Li + ) where the electrochemical oxidation of LPSCl is predominant, (ii) a gentle slope between 3.9 -4.4 V related to the delithiation of NCM domains in LMRO, and (iii) a plateau above 4.4 V associated with the activation of Li 2 MnO3 domains, including delithiation and oxygen loss. In these distinct voltage regions, the oxidation of the LPSCl surface, the delithiation of NCM domains, and the activation of Li2MnO3 domains contributed to pressure drops of 0.20, 0.17, and 0.16 MPa, respectively. The significant cell pressure loss during the initial charge deteriorated the mechanical contact between N-LMRO and LPSCl, resulting in increased interfacial resistance. For this reason, the electrochemical activation of Li 2 MnO3 domains in N-LMRO was slower in ASSBs compared to LIBs, which maintained intimate contact between N-LMRO and liquid electrolytes.

To support the role of mechanical contact in the electrochemical activation kinetics of LMRO, we compared the electrochemical behavior of N-LMRO during formation cycles for various cell pressures. Figure 4b shows the voltage profiles of N-LMRO | LPSCl | Li-In for the initial cycle in a voltage range of 1.38 3.98 V (vs In/Li-In) under the formation condition of a 0.05C rate and 60 ° C for various cell pressures of 20, 35, and 50 MPa. Figure 4c compares changes in the discharge capacities of NLMRO as a function of cycle number under these cell pressures. Complete activation of N-LMRO was achieved earlier as the cell pressure increased. This is attributed to the fact that higher cell pressures mitigated the irreversible loss of cell pressure during electrochemical activation, thereby suppressing the deterioration of contact between N-LMRO and LPSCl. [47] This explanation is also supported by electrochemical impedance analysis (EIS). Figure 4d and Table S2 (Supporting Information) show the Nyquist plots of N-LMRO | LPSCl | Li-In at 3.38 V (vs In/LiIn) after four formation cycles and the corresponding fitting parameters. Fitting was performed using the equivalent circuit model in Figure S12 (Supporting Information). The overall interfacial resistance of N-LMRO, including both the interfacial resistance between N-LMRO and LPSCl (R CAM | SE ) and the solid electrolyte grain boundary resistance (R GB ), decreased with increasing cell pressure. [48,49] This suggests that high cell pressure suppressed the deterioration of the interfacial contact between N-LMRO and LPSCl during formation. In this regard, we further examined the electrochemical activation of LiNbO 3 -coated N-LMRO (LNO-N-LMRO) under the formation condition of a 0.05C rate, 60 ° C, and 50 MPa because the LiNbO 3 coating is known to suppress the electrochemical oxidation of the LP-

Adv. Energy Mater. 2024 , 14 , 2403374

www.advenergymat.de

SCl surface, [ 50,51] thus mitigating the cell pressure drop during the initial charge. LiNbO 3 was coated on the N-LMRO surface using sol-gel process. [ 52] The XRD pattern, SEM image, particle size distribution, and TEM-EDS mapping images of LNO-NLMRO powders are presented in Figure S13 (Supporting Information). Figure 4e,f shows the voltage profiles of LNO-N-LMRO | LPSCl | Li-In at 30 and 60 ° C, respectively, under the formation condition of a 0.05C rate and 50 MPa. The corresponding Coulombic e/uniFB03ciencies are presented in Figure S14 (Supporting Information). Figure 4g,h compare changes in the discharge capacities of bare N-LMRO and LNO-N-LMRO as a function of cycle number at 30 and 60 ° C, respectively, under the same formation conditions. LNO-N-LMRO achieved complete activation of Li 2 MnO3 earlier in the cycle numbers at both temperatures compared to bare N-LMRO. This reveals the electrochemical activation of LMRO is critically dependent on the interfacial behavior of LMRO. The rate performance of LNO-N-LMRO at both 30 and 60 ° C is displayed in Figure S15 (Supporting Information).

## 2.4. Interphase Engineering for Suppressing the Interfacial Degradation of LMRO + LPSCl

N-LMRO showed negligible capacity fading over 1300 cycles at 30 ° C, whereas the marginal capacity fading of N-LMRO was observed over 200 cycles at 60 ° C, despite the facilitated electrochemical activation of Li 2 MnO3 domains at the higher temperature. To investigate the capacity fading of N-LMRO at 60 ° C, we compared the interfacial degradation of LPSCl at 30 and 60 ° Cusing time-of-flight secondary-ion mass spectrometry (ToF-SIMS). Figure 5 a presents the normalized ToF-SIMS spectra of N-LMRO composite electrodes retrieved during formation cycles at both temperatures. The peak intensity of each fragment was divided by the total intensity of all fragments, including non-oxidized species of LPSCl, to normalize the spectra of pristine N-LMRO and cycled N-LMRO in ASSBs, retrieved after various formation cycle numbers at a fully discharged state (1.38 V vs. In/Li-In) at 30 and 60 ° C.

Consequently, the relative amount of each fragment is proportional to the relative intensity of the normalized peaks. [ 51-53] The signal intensities of phosphates and sulfates, the oxidative decomposition products of LPSCl, increased at both temperatures with cycle numbers. However, the increases in signal intensity for phosphates and sulfates were more pronounced at 60 ° Ccompared to 30 ° C. This indicates that the LPSCl surface underwent more oxidative degradation at 60 ° C than at 30 ° C, resulting in less stable capacity retention at the higher temperature. In addition, Figure 5b compares the Raman spectra of N-LMRO composite electrodes before (pristine) and after formation at 30 and 60 ° C. The peak at 432 cm -1 , corresponding to the PS 4 3 -building block in LPSCl, is known to shift to a lower wavenumber whensulfur in LPSCl is substituted by oxygen. [ 54] The PS 4 3 -peak remained almost unchanged after formation at 30 ° C, whereas the peak shifted significantly after formation at 60 ° C. This implies that the LPSCl surface reacted with the lattice oxygens of NLMRO during formation at 60 ° C, forming the oxidized species of sulfur and phosphorus, such as PO x , SO x , and P(S/O) 4 3 -. This aligns with the ToF-SIMS analysis shown in Figure 5a.

16146840, 2024, 47, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/aenm.202403374 by Yonsei University Library, Wiley Online Library on [21/04/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

www.advancedsciencenews.com

Figure 5. a) Ex situ ToF-SIMS spectra of N-LMRO composite electrodes, retrieved after various formation cycle numbers at 30 and 60 ° C. b) Raman spectra of N-LMRO composite electrodes retrieved before (pristine) and after formation at 30 and 60 ° C. In situ DEMS profiles of LNO-N-LMRO during the initial charge in ASSBs at a rate of 0.05C at (c) 30 and (d) 60 ° C. e) Ex situ S-K edge XANES spectra of pristine N-LMRO and cycled N-LMRO in ASSBs, retrieved at a fully discharged state (1.38 V vs In/Li-In) after 200 cycles at a rate of 0.5C at 30 and 60 ° C.

To demonstrate why the LPSCl surface experienced greater oxidation at elevated temperatures, we performed in situ di/uniFB00erential electrochemical mass spectrometry (DEMS) analysis at 30 and 60 ° C (Figure 5c,d). To facilitate the electrochemical activation of Li 2 MnO3 in N-LMRO during the initial charge, we examined LNO-N-LMRO. This LNO-N-LMRO delivered 350 mA h g -1 during the initial charge at both 30 and 60 ° C. This suggests that the degrees of electrochemical activation of Li 2 MnO3 in LNO-NLMRO were similar at both temperatures. Consequently, the almost same amounts of O 2 gas should have evolved at both temperatures because O 2 gas evolution in N-LMRO predominantly originates from the oxygen loss in Li 2 MnO3 during electrochemical activation. [ 4a] However, at the end of the charge above 4.28 V (vs In/Li-In), significant O 2 (m/z = 32) gas evolution was observed at 30 ° C, whereas the O 2 gas signal was remarkably trivial at 60 ° C. This discrepancy is attributed to the fact that the chemical reaction between LPSCl and O 2 , generated from Li2MnO3 during activation, was facilitated at 60 ° C, oxidizing the LPSCl surface. The evolution of CO 2 (m/z = 44) and SO 2 (m/z = 64)

gases was insignificant at both temperatures. In addition, we performed Raman analysis to provide evidence of the chemical reaction between LPSCl and O 2 . Figure S16 (Supporting Information) shows the Raman spectra of LPSCl pellets before (pristine) and after storage under an O 2 atmosphere for five days at 30 and 60 ° C. The PS 4 3 -peak at 432 cm -1 slightly shifted to a lower wavenumber after storage at 30 ° C, whereas the shift was significant after storage at 60 ° C. This supports the fact that the LPSCl surface significantly reacted with O 2 at 60 ° C, forming oxidized species such as P(S/O) 4 3 -. This observation is consistent with the ex situ ToF-SIMS and Raman analyses (Figure 5a,b).

The same degradation behavior of LPSCl was also supported by ex situ XANES analysis. Figure 5e shows the S K-edge XANES spectra of pristine N-LMRO composite electrodes and cycled NLMRO composite electrodes retrieved after 200 cycles at 30 and 60 ° C. The cells were cycled at a 0.5C rate. Three major peaks were observed at ≈ 2472, 2477, and 2483 eV, indicated by (i), (ii), and (iii), respectively. The peak (i) shifted to higher energy, and the intensity of peak (ii) decreased after cycling at both 30 and

www.advancedsciencenews.com

60 ° C. This suggests a distortion of PS 4 3 -building blocks and the formation of S-S bonds in LPSCl after cycling. [ 55-58] However, the shift in peak (i) and the reduction in intensity of peak (ii) were more pronounced at 60 ° Ccompared to 30 ° C. This indicates that the structural degradation of LPSCl was more significant at 60 ° C than at 30 ° C, consistent with the findings from the ex situ ToFSIMS analysis (Figure 5a).

To mitigate the oxidative decomposition of LPSCl at elevated temperatures, the N-LMRO surface was modified by tethering thioglycolic acid. Thio-GA is a chemical compound that has both carboxyl and thiol functional groups. The carboxyl group in thioGA is used to tether with the hydroxyl group on the N-LMRO surface through esterification. [ 59] The thio-GA on the N-LMRO surface further reacts with other thio-GA molecules through thioesterification. The overall chemical reaction is illustrated below:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

The thiol group aims to improve compatibility between N-LMRO and LPSCl through chalcogen-chalcogen interactions. [ 60,61] Figure 6 a shows the Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) spectra of bare thio-GA, bare N-LMRO, and thio-GA-coated N-LMRO (denoted as thio-NLMRO) powders. The intense sharp and broad FT-IR peaks at ≈ 1700 and 3200 -2800 cm -1 correspond to C = O stretching and OH stretching, respectively. The weak doublet at ≈ 2600 cm -1 originates from SH stretching. An intense C = O peak at ≈ 1600 cm -1 was observed on the thio-N-LMRO surface, and this peak shifted to a lower wavenumber compared to bare thio-GA. This implies that bare thio-GA was successfully tethered on the N-LMRO surface. [62] Moreover, the OH peak of bare thio-Ga at ≈ 3200 -2800 cm -1 disappeared after tethering with N-LMRO, supporting the esterification reaction between thio-GA and N-LMRO. Figure 6b shows the TEM and corresponding EDS mapping images of thio-N-LMRO powders for various reaction periods. The sulfur element from thio-GA intensified gradually as the reaction time increased. Eventually, thio-GA was uniformly and conformally tethered to the N-LMRO surface after 5 h. The thio-GA coating layer was a few nanometers in thickness. The XRD pattern, particle size distribution, and SEM image of thio-N-LMRO powders are presented in Figure S17 (Supporting Information), showing that the structure and morphology of N-LMRO remained unchanged after surface modification with thio-GA.

In addition, we compared the electrochemical performance of LMRO| LPSCl | Li-In at 60 ° C for bare N-LMRO, LNO-N-LMRO, thio-N-LMRO, as shown in Figure 6c. Figure S18 (Supporting Information) displays their corresponding voltage profiles and dQdV plots for various cycle numbers.

The cells were charged and discharged at a 0.5C rate in a voltage range of 1.38 - 3.98 V (vs In/Li-In). Both bare N-LMRO and LNO-N-LMRO exhibited similar capacity fading over 200 cycles, whereas thio-N-LMRO showed stable capacity retention over 500

www.advenergymat.de cycles. LiNbO 3 is known to decompose at high voltages, above 4.5 V (vs Li/Li + ), releasing oxygen, [ 63-65] which led to instability of the LiNbO 3 coating layer during cycling in a voltage range of 1.38 - 3.98 V (vs In/Li-In). Consequently, LNO-N-LMRO showed capacity fading similar to that of bare N-LMRO. Figure S19 (Supporting Information) also shows the voltage profiles and corresponding Coulombic e/uniFB03ciency of thio-N-LMRO during the initial formation cycles at 60 ° C. Figure 6d compares the normalized ToF-SIMS spectra of the LNO-N-LMRO and thio-N-LMRO composite electrodes retrieved after cycling at 60 ° C. The signal intensity of phosphates and sulfates was significantly stronger for the LNO-N-LMRO compared to thio-N-LMRO. This reveals that the conformal coating layer of thio-GA formed a stable interphase between N-LMRO and LPSCl, e/uniFB00ectively suppressing the oxidative degradation of LPSCl during cycling. As a result, thio-N-LMRO showed excellent electrochemical performance at 60 ° C, such as a high reversible capacity of 255 mA h g -1 and stable capacity retention of 86.4% over 500 cycles. The suppressed oxidation of LPSCl on the thio-N-LMRO surface was further evidenced by ex situ X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis. Figure S20 (Supporting Information) compares the P 2p and S 2p XPS spectra of LNO-N-LMRO and thio-N-LMRO composite electrodes retrieved before and after five formation cycles at 60 ° C. The amounts of oxidized species (PO x , SOx , and P2 Sx ) of phosphorus and sulfur, [48,53,60] which formed during the formation cycles, were lower in thio-N-LMRO compared to LNO-NLMRO. This implies that the surface modification of N-LMRO with thio-GA e/uniFB00ectively suppressed LPSCl oxidation more than the conventional LiNbO 3 coating. This consistent with the ToFSIMS analysis shown in Figure 6d.

## 3. Conclusion

We compared the mechano-electrochemical behavior of two distinct LMRO (Li1.2 Ni 0.13 Co0.13 Mn0.54 O2) materials as cathode materials for sulfide-based ASSBs: micrometer-sized spherical LMRO (M-LMRO) and nanostructured LMRO (N-LMRO). MLMRO demonstrated a small reversible capacity, below 150 mA h g -1 even at 60 ° C, whereas N-LMRO exhibited significantly higher reversible capacities, achieving 251 mA h g -1 at 30 ° C and 287 mA h g -1 at 60 ° C. The performance di/uniFB00erence between M-LMRO and N-LMRO was attributed to varying mechanical contacts between LMRO and LPSCl powders, which a/uniFB00ect e/uniFB00ective di/uniFB00usion length within LMRO. Additionally, N-LMRO exhibited superior electrochemical performance, maintaining a stable capacity retention of 97.1% after 1300 cycles and demonstrating high Coulombic e/uniFB03ciency in ASSBs, surpassing that in LIBs. Moreover, voltage decay during cycling, a major issue with LMRO in LIBs, was significantly suppressed in ASSBs. In addition, we examined the role of the interface in the electrochemical activation of Li2MnO3 domains within LMRO for ASSBs. The electrochemical activation kinetics of N-LMRO in ASSBs, which were notably slower than in LIBs, critically depended on the interfacial behavior between the cathode material and LPSCl powders.

The capacity fading of N-LMRO at 60 ° C is attributed to the fact that O 2 , generated from Li 2 MnO3 during activation, preferentially reacted with LPSCl at 60 ° C, oxidizing the LPSCl surface. Consequently, the LPSCl surface experienced more severe

16146840, 2024, 47, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/aenm.202403374 by Yonsei University Library, Wiley Online Library on [21/04/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

www.advancedsciencenews.com

Figure 6. a) FT-IR spectra of bare thio-GA, bare N-LMRO, and thio-N-LMRO powders. The molecular structure of thio-GA is presented as an inset. b) TEM-EDS mapping images of thio-N-LMRO powders for various reaction periods. c) Cycle performance and Coulombic e/uniFB03ciency of bare N-LMRO, LNO-N-LMRO, and thio-N-LMRO in ASSBs at a rate of 0.5 C and 60 ° C. d) Ex situ ToF-SIMS spectra of LNO-N-LMRO and thio-N-LMRO composite electrodes, retrieved after various cycle numbers at a rate of 0.5 C at 60 ° C.

oxidative degradation at 60 ° C than at 30 ° C, resulting in less stable capacity retention at the higher temperature. To address this issue, we modified the N-LMRO surface by tethering thioGA to mitigate the oxidative decomposition of LPSCl at elevated temperatures. A conformal coating layer of thio-GA formed a stable interphase between N-LMRO and LPSCl, significantly suppressing the oxidative degradation of LPSCl during cycling. Ultimately, thio-GA-tethered N-LMRO showed excellent electrochemical performance at 60 ° C, such as a high reversible capacity of 255 mA h g -1 and stable capacity retention over 500 cycles. These findings provide promising strategies for advancing LMRO materials for use in sulfide-based ASSBs.

www.advancedsciencenews.com

## 4. Experimental Section

Materials Synthesis : M-LMRO powders were synthesized through solid-state sintering of Ni 1/6 Co 1/6 Mn4/6 CO 3 with Li 2 CO3 . Ni 1/6 Co 1/6 Mn4/6 CO 3 powders were prepared by a co-precipitation method using a continuously stirred tank reactor (CSTR) at 60 ° C under an N 2 atmosphere. A 2 M transition metal solution was obtained by dissolving NiSO 4 · 6H2 O (Samchun Chemicals, 98.5%), CoSO4 · 7H2 O (Samchun Chemicals, 98.5%), and MnSO 4 · H2 O (Samchun Chemicals, 98%) in a molar ratio of Ni: Co: Mn = 1: 1: 4 in deionize water (DI). The solution was fed into the reactor along with a 2 M Na 2 CO 3 (Daejung Chemicals, 99.5%) solution, maintaining a pH of 7.0, and a 2 M NH 4 OH (Junsei Chemical, 28%) solution was added as a chelating agent. The precipitates were washed with DI and dried at 80 ° C under vacuum overnight. Ni 1/6 Co 1/6 Mn4/6 CO 3 precipitates were mixed with Li 2 CO3 in a molar ratio of Li: TM = 1.5: 1, followed by calcination at 850 ° C in air for 10 h. N-LMRO nanoparticles were synthesized through a sol-gel method. Stoichiometric amounts of precursors, Li(CH 3COO) ∙ 2H2 O (Aldrich, 99.9%), Ni(CH 3 COO) 2 ∙ 4H2 O (Aldrich, 99.0%), Co(CH 3 COO) 2 ∙ 4H2 O (Aldrich, reagent grade), and Mn(CH 3 COO) 2 ∙ 4H2 O (Aldrich, 99.99%), were dissolved in DI with 5 at.% excess of lithium precursor. HNO3 (Daejung chemicals, 70%) and sucrose (Aldrich, 99.5%) were added to adjust the pH and to act as a chelating agent, respectively. The solution was stirred at 80 ° C until a viscous gel formed, followed by drying at 100 ° C under vacuum overnight. The resulting powders were annealed in air through a sequential step of 450 ° C for 5 h and 900 ° C for 10 h. LiNbO 3 -coated N-LMRO was obtained through a conventional sol-gel method. N-LMRO powders were dispersed in an ethanol solution containing Li(CH 3 CH2 O) (Aldrich, 99.8%) and Nb(CH 3 CH 2 O) 5 (Aldrich, 99%). The solution was stirred for 3 h and the solvent was evaporated using a rotary evaporator. Then, the retrieved powders were sintered in air at 350 ° C for 3 h. In addition, thio-GA was coated on the N-LMRO surface through citric acid-mediated esterification. N-LMRO powders were dispersed in acetonitrile (Aldrich, 99.8%) containing thioglycolic acid (Aldrich, 98%) and a trace amount of citric acid (Aldrich, 99.5%) with a weight ratio of LMRO: thio-GA = 99.5: 0.5. The solutions were stirred at 60 ° C for 3 h. The centrifuged powders were dried at 60 ° C under vacuum overnight.

Materials Characterizations : XRD analysis was conducted using a Bruker D2 PHASER with Cu K /u1D6FC radiation ( /u1D706 = 1.5418 Å). Ex situ samples were sealed using an air-tight sample holder with a beryllium window to avoid air exposure. SEM and TEM images were obtained with a field emission SEM (Carl Zeiss, GeminiSEM 560) and a field emission TEM (JEOL, JEM-F200), respectively. Particle size distribution was measured using a particle size analyzer (Microtrac, S3500). An FT-IR spectrometer (Bruker, TENSOR27) were used to obtain IR spectra of LMRO powders and thioglycolic acid. ToF-SIMS analysis was performed in a negative mode using a TOF.SIMS 5 instrument (ION-TOF, Germany) with a 30 keV Bi + primary ion source installed at the National Center for Inter-university Research Facilities (NCIRF) at Seoul National Univerisity. An air-tight transfer vessel was used for the delivery of retrieved composite cathodes from an Ar-filled glove box to the instrument. To remove possible surface contaminants, a 0.5 keV Cs + ion beam was also imposed on all samples for 30 seconds. The analyses were run until a dose density limit of 1.0 × 10 13 ions cm -2 was reached from the analysis area of 100 × 100 µ m 2 . Raman spectra were measured using Raman spectrometer (Thermo Fisher Scientific, DXR2xi) with a 532 nm laser. XPS was carried out using a VersaProbe III (PHI) with Al K /u1D6FC radiation (1486.7 eV). All samples were transferred from an Ar filled glovebox to the XPS instrument using a transfer vessel and sputtered using a 3.0 keV Ar + ion beam prior to the examination to minimize possible surface contaminants. The diameter of a beam with a power of 25 W at 15 keV was 100 µ mand a raster size was 2 × 2 mm 2 . C 1s peak at 284.8 eV was used as an internal reference to calibrate the binding energy of various elements. Mn, Co and Ni K-edge XAFS analysis was conducted through PLS-II 7D and 8C beamlines at the Pohang Accelerator Laboratory. Ex situ samples were sealed with Kapton tape in an Ar-filled glovebox to minimize air exposure. S K-edge XANES was analyzed through PSL-II 1C beamline at the Pohang Accelerator Laboratory. EXAFS and XANES spectra

www.advenergymat.de were analyzed using Athena software. In situ DEMS analysis was carried out using a homemade cell. 30 mg of LiNbO 3 coated N-LMRO composite cathode was used for the fabrication of a bulk-type cell for DEMS analysis. The assembled cell was charged to 4.28 V (vs In/Li-In) using a constant current/constant voltage (CC/CV) mode at a rate of 0.05 C at 30 and 60 ° C. Constant voltage was held until charge capacity reached 350 mA h g -1 . After connecting the in situ DEMS cell to the HPR-20 R&amp;D benchtop gas analysis system (Hidden analytical), it was purged with Ar gas and rested for 24 h. Ar gas was continuously flowed at 10 ml min -1 to the mass spectrometer through the cell during the whole process to precisely detect evolved gaseous species during charging. Signals of ionized species corresponding to m/z values of 28, 32, 40, 44, and 64, (corresponding to N 2 , O2 , Ar, CO 2 , and SO 2 , respectively) were simultaneously recorded by a quadrupole mass analyzer.

Fabrication of Electrochemical Cells : 2032-type coin cells for LIBs were fabricated by assembling the cathode, polyethylene separator, and Li metal (700 µ m in thickness). Cathode electrodes were prepared by casting a slurry of LMRO, Super P, and PVdF (in a weight ratio 8: 1: 1) on Al foil, followed by drying under vacuum at 120 ° C overnight. The mass loadings of LMRO were ≈ 5.3 mg cm -2 . 1 M LiPF 6 in EC: DMC (in a volume ratio of 1: 1) was used as the electrolyte. Bulk-type cells of LMRO were fabricated for ASSBs. The composite cathode pellets were prepared by hand-mixing LMRO, Li 6 PS 5 Cl (Jungkwan Co.), and VGCF (in a weight ratio of 60: 35: 5). Li-In alloy and Li 4 Ti 5 O12 (LTO) composite electrodes were used as the anode for electrochemical characterization and di/uniFB00erential electrochemical pressiometry, respectively. Li-In alloy electrodes were prepared by laminating In foil (50 µ min thickness, MTI Korea Co.) and Li foil (20 µ minthickness, Honjo, Japan). The composite anode of Li 4 Ti 5 O12 was fabricated by mixing Li 4 Ti 5 O12 , LPSCl, VCGF, and ionic liquid (in a weight ratio of 10: 9: 1: 0.1), where the ionic liquid refers to lithium bis(trifluoromethanesulfonly)imide (LiTFSI, Aldrich, 99.95%) in triethylene glycol dimethyl ether (TEGME, Aldrich, 99%) (in a molar ratio of 1: 1). For the cell assembly of ASSBs, 250 mg of LPSCl (NEI Co.) was first pelletized at 145 MPa to form a solid electrolyte separator layer. Subsequently, the composite cathode powders were evenly spread on one side of the LPSCl pellet separator and pressed at 360 MPa. The mass loadings of LMRO were ≈ 6.8 and 13.6 mg cm -2 for electrochemical evaluation and in situ DEMS analysis, respectively. Then, the anode layer of metal foils was added on the other side of the separator layer. For in situ di/uniFB00erential electrochemical pressiometry, the composite anode pellet of LTO was prepared by pelletizing at 360 MPa. The mass loading of LTO was ≈ 16.2 mg cm -2 . A torque of 8.5 Nm, corresponding to 50 MPa was applied to the bulk-type cells during electrochemical measurements.

Electrochemical Characterization : The electrochemical performance of LMRO was evaluated using a TOSCAT-3100 battery cycler (TOYO). Cells were cycled between 2.0 and 4.6 V (vs Li/Li + ), corresponding to 1.38 3.98 V (vs In/In-Li). Two types of formation cycles were conducted at a rate of 0.05 C (1C = 200 mA g -1 ) (i) for 5 cycles at 60 ° C and (ii) for 10 cycles at 30 ° C. Main cycles were carried out at a rate of 0.5 C, with a CC/CV mode for charging and a constant current (CC) mode for discharging. In the CC/CV mode, cell voltage was held until current density decreased to 0.25 C. For the conductivity measurements, a symmetric cell consisting of SUS | LPSCl | SUS using a bulk-type cell was fabricated. LPSCl powders were pelletized at 360 MPa. Electronic conductivity was measured at 30 and60 ° Cbyapplying a DC polarization of 1 V using an SP-150 potentiostat (Biologic, France). Ionic conductivity was measured every 10 ° Cfrom 10 to 80 ° CusingACimpedancewithanappliedvoltage amplitude of 10 mV. The activation energy of LPSCl was calculated using the Equation (3) below:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where /u1D70E , A, k B , E a , T refer to ionic conductivity, pre-exponential factor, Boltzmann constant, activation energy, and temperature in Kelvin, respectively. For in situ electrochemical pressiometry analysis, a high-resolution pressure sensor was used with a sensitivity of 0.01 kg (load cell, BONGSHIN). In situ pressiometry cells were rested for 3 days prior to measurements to stabilize the cells. EIS analysis was performed at room

www.advancedsciencenews.com temperature using an SP-150 potentiostat (Biologic, France). EIS data were obtained when the cells reached an equilibrium state by resting for 5 h after charging to 3.38 V (vs In/Li-In) at a rate of 0.05 and 60 ° C. Nyquist plots were fitted using EC-Lab software.

## Supporting Information

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## Acknowledgements

This work was supported by the National Research Foundation of Korea (NRF) grant funded by the Korean Government (MSIT) (RS-202400408823) and supported by SK On Project.

## Conflict of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## Data Availability Statement

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## Keywords

all-solid-state batteries, Liand Mn-rich layered oxides, mechanoelectrochemical behavior, sulfide-based solid electrolytes, voltage decay

Received: July 31, 2024 Revised: September 11, 2024 Published online: September 29, 2024

- [1] a) W. Lee, S. Muhammad, C. Sergey, H. Lee, J. Yoon, Y.-M. Kang, W.-S. Yoon, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2020 , 59 , 2578; b) J. Zheng, S. Myeong, W. Cho, P. Yan, J. Xiao, C. Wang, J. Cho, J.-G. Zhang, Adv. Energy Mater. 2017 , 7 , 1601284.
- [2] a) J. Bréger, M. Jiang, N. Dupré, Y. S. Meng, Y. Shao-Horn, G. Ceder, C. P. Grey, J. Solid State Chem. 2005 , 178 , 2575; b) K. A. Jarvis, Z. Deng, L. F. Allard, A. Manthiram, P. J. Ferreira, Chem. Mater. 2011 , 23 , 3614.
- [3] C. S. Johnson, J. S. Kim, C. Lefief, N. Li, J. T. Vaughey, M. M. Thackeray, Electrochem. Commun. 2004 , 6 , 1085.
- [4] a) K. Luo, M. R. Roberts, R. Hao, N. Guerrini, D. M. Pickup, Y.-S. Liu, K. Edström, J. Guo, A. V. Chadwick, L. C. Duda, P. G. Bruce, Nat. Chem. 2016 , 8 , 684; b) G. Assat, D. Foix, C. Delacourt, A. Iadecola, R. Dedryvère, J.-M. Tarascon, Nat. Commun. 2017 , 8 , 2219.
- [5] a) J.-M. Lim, D. Kim, Y.-G. Lim, M.-S. Park, Y.-J. Kim, M. Cho, K. Cho, J. Mater. Chem. A 2015 , 3 , 7066; b) J. R. Croy, M. Balasubramanian, K. G. Gallagher, A. K. Burrell, Acc. Chem. Res. 2015 , 48 , 2813.
- [6] a) J.-M. Kim, S.-H. Kim, N. Y. Kim, M.-H. Ryou, H. Bae, J. H. Kim, Y.G. Lee, S.-Y. Lee, iScience 2020 , 23 , 101739; b) A. Arifiadi, T. Brake, F. Demelash, B. Ying, K. Kleiner, H. Hur, S. Wiemers-Meyer, M. Winter, J. Kasnatscheew, Adv. Energy Sustain. Res. 2024 , 5 , 2400129.
- [7] S. Y. Kim, C. S. Park, S. Hosseini, J. Lampert, Y. J. Kim, L. F. Nazar, Adv. Energy Mater. 2021 , 11 , 2100552.

Adv. Energy Mater. 2024 , 14 , 2403374

www.advenergymat.de

- [8] a) J. Hong, H.-D. Lim, M. Lee, S.-W. Kim, H. Kim, S.-T. Oh, G.-C. Chung, K. Kang, Chem. Mater. 2012 , 24 , 2692; b) T. Yim, S.-G. Woo, S. H. Lim, W. Cho, J. H. Song, Y.-K. Han, Y.-J. Kim, J. Mater. Chem. A 2015 , 3 , 6157; c) J.-G. Han, I. Park, J. Cha, S. Park, S. Park, S. Myeong, W. Cho, S.-S. Kim, S. Y. Hong, J. Cho, N.-S. Choi, ChemElectroChem 2017 , 4 , 56.
- [9] a) M. Gu, I. Belharouak, J. Zheng, H. Wu, J. Xiao, A. Genc, K. Amine, S. Thevuthasan, D. R. Baer, J.-G. Zhang, N. D. Browning, J. Liu, C. Wang, ACS Nano 2013 , 7 , 760; b) D. Mohanty, J. Li, D. P. Abraham, A. Huq, E. A. Payzant, D. L. Wood III, C. Daniel, Chem. Mater. 2014 , 26 , 6272.
- [10] a) T. Liu, J. Liu, L. Li, L. Yu, J. Diao, T. Zhou, S. Li, A. Dai, W. Zhao, S. Xu, Y. Ren, L. Wang, T. Wu, R. Qi, Y . Xiao, J. Zheng, W. Cha, R. Harder, I. Robinson, J. Wen, J. Lu, F. Pan, K. Amine, Nature 2022 , 606 , 305; b) M. Sathiya, A. M. Abakumov, D. Foix, G. Rousse, K. Ramesha, M. Saubanère, M. L. Doublet, H. Vezin, C. P. Laisa, A. S. Prakash, D. Gonbeau, G. VanTendeloo, J. M. Tarascon, Nat. Mater. 2015 , 14 , 230.
- [11] a) W.-J. Kong, C.-Z. Zhao, S. Sun, L. Shen, X.-Y. Huang, P. Xu, Y. Lu, W.-Z. Huang, J.-Q. Huang, Q. Zhang, Adv. Mater. 2024 , 36 , 2310738; b) Y. S. Jung, D. Y. Oh, Y. J. Nam, K. H. Park, Isr. J. Chem. 2015 , 55 , 472; c) M. Ali, C.-H. Doh, Y.-J. Lee, B.-G. Kim, J.-W. Park, J. Park, G. Park, W.-J. Lee, S.-M. Lee, Y .-C. Ha, Energy Technol. 2021 , 9 , 2001096; d) Z. Zhang, Y. Shao, B. Lotsch, Y.-S. Hu, H. Li, J. Janek, L. F. Nazar, C.-W. Nan, J. Maier, M. Armand, L. Chen, Energy Environ. Sci. 2018 , 11 , 1945.
- [12] a) K. Hikima, K. Suzuki, S. Taminato, M. Hirayama, S. Yasuno, R. Kanno, Chem. Lett. 2019 , 48 , 192; b) X. Yin, D. Li, L. Hao, Y. Wang, Y. Wang, X. Guo, S. Zhao, B. Wang, L. Wu, H. Yu, Chem. Commun. 2023 , 59 , 639; c) B. Chen, J. Zhang, D. Wong, T. Wang, T. Li, C. Liu, L. Sun, X. Liu, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 2024 , 63 , 202315856.
- [13] a) W. Du, Q. Shao, Y. Wei, C. Yan, P. Gao, Y. Lin, Y . Jiang, Y . Liu, X. Yu, M.Gao, W. Sun, H. Pan, ACSEnergy Lett. 2022 , 7 , 3006; b) Y . Wang, D. Wu, P. Chen, P. Lu, X. Wang, L. Chen, H. Li, F. Wu, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2023 , 34 , 2309822; c) Z. Wu, Q. Shao, Y. Wei, C. Yan, P. Gao, Y. Lin, Y . Jiang, Y. Yang, J. Chen, Y . Liu, M. Gao, W. Sun, H. Pan, Nano Energy 2024 , 122 , 109281; d) N. Hu, Y.-H. Zhang, Y. Yang, H. Wu, Y. Liu, C. Hao, Y. Zheng, D. Sun, W. Li, J. Li, Z. Hu, T.-S. Chan, C.-W. Kao, Q. Kong, X. Wang, S.-C. Haw, J. Ma, G. Cui, Adv. Energy Mater. 2024 , 14 , 2303797.
- [14] a) S. Sun, C.-Z. Zhao, H. Yuan, Z.-H. Fu, X. Chen, Y. Lu, Y.-F. Li, J.-K. Hu, J. Dong, J.-Q. Huang, M. Ouyang, Q. Zhang, Sci. Adv. 2022 , 8 , eadd5189; b) R. Yu, C. Wang, H. Duan, M. Jiang, A. Zhang, A. Fraser, J. Zuo, Y . Wu, Y . Sun, Y . Zhao, J. Liang, J. Fu, S. Deng, Z. Ren, G. Li, H. Huang, R. Li, N. Chen, J. Wang, X. Li, C. V. Singh, X. Sun, Adv. Mater. 2023 , 35 , 2207234; c) A. Zhang, J. Wang, R. Yu, H. Zhuo, C. Wang, Z. Ren, J. Wang, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2023 , 15 , 8190.
- [15] a) S. Wang, Q. Bai, A. M. Nolan, Y. Liu, S. Gong, Q. Sun, Y. Mo, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 2019 , 58 , 8039; b) T. Asano, A. Sakai, S. Ouchi, M. Sakaida, A. Miyazaki, S. Hasegawa, Adv. Mater. 2018 , 30 , 1803075.
- [16] a) T. K. Schwietert, V. A. Arszelewska, C. Wang, C. Yu, A. Vasileiadis, N. J. J. de Klerk, J. Hageman, T. Hupfer, I. Kerkamm, Y. Xu, E. van der Maas, E. M. Kelder, S. Ganapathy, M. Wagemaker, Nat. Mater. 2020 , 19 , 428; b) G. F. Dewald, S. Ohno, M. A. Kraft, R. Koerver, P. Till, N. M. Vargas-Barbosa, J. Janek, W. G. Zeier, Chem. Mater. 2019 , 31 , 8328.
- [17] a) B. Liu, N. Hu, C. Li, J. Ma, J. Zhang, Y. Yang, D. Sun, B. Yin, G. Cui, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2022 , 61 , 203309626; b) S. Kaewmala, W. Limphirat, V. Yordsri, H. Kim, S. Muhammad, W.-S. Yoon, S. Srilomsak, P. Limthongkul, N. Meethong, Sci. Rep. 2019 , 9 , 427.
- [18] Y. Yang, N. Hu, Y.-H. Zhang, Y. Zheng, Z. Hu, C.-Y. Kuo, H.-J. Lin, C.T. Chen, T.-S. Chan, C.-W. Kao, Y. Jin, J. Ma, G. Cui, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2023 , 15 , 30060.
- [19] a) S. Kim, W. Cho, X. Zhang, Y. Oshima, J. W. Choi, Nat. Commun. 2016 , 7 , 13598; b) F. Fu, Y. Yao, H. Wang, G.-L. Xu, K. Amine, S.-G. Sun, M. Shao, Nano Energy 2017 , 35 , 370.

## www.advancedsciencenews.com

- [20] a) T. Shi, Q. Tu, Y . Tian, Y . Xiao, L. J. Miara, O. Kononova, G. Ceder, Adv. Energy Mater. 2020 , 10 , 1902881; b) C. Wang, R. Yu, S. Hwang, J. Liang, X. Li, C. Zhao, Y . Sun, J. Wang, N. Holmes, R. Li, H. Huang, S. Zhao, L. Zhang, S. Lu, D. Su, X. Sun, Energy Storage Mater. 2020 , 30 , 98; c) Y . J. Kim, T. D. Hoang, S. C. Han, J. A. Bang, H. W. Kang, J. Kim, H. Park, J.-H. Park, J.-W. Park, G. Park, Y .-J. Lee, D. Kim, S.-W. Eom, J.H. Choi, S.-K. Lee, J. Moon, Y.-C. Ha, B. G. Kim, Energy Storage Mater. 2024 , 71 , 103607.
- [21] F. Strauss, T. Bartsch, L. de Biasi, A. Y . Kim, J. Janek, P. Hartmann, T. Brezesinski, ACS Energy Lett. 2018 , 3 , 992.
- [22] Y. Li, W. Li, R. Shimizu, D. Cheng, H. Nguyen, J. Paulsen, S. Kumakura, M. Zhang, Y. S. Meng, Adv. Energy Mater. 2022 , 12 , 2103033.
- [23] J. Lu, Y .-L. Chang, B. Song, H. Xia, J.-R. Yang, K. S. Lee, L. Lu, J. Power Sources 2014 , 271 , 604.
- [24] B. Wu, X. Yang, X. Jiang, Y. Zhang, H. Shu, P. Gao, L. Liu, X. Wang, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2018 , 28 , 1803392.
- [25] W. Yin, A. Grimaud, G. Rousse, A. M. Abakumov, A. Senyshyn, L. Zhang, S. Trabesinger, A. Iadecola, D. Foix, D. Giaume, J.-M. Tarascon, Nat. Commun. 2020 , 11 , 1252.
- [26] T. Ohzuku, A. Ueda, M. Nagayama, J. Electrochem. Soc. 1993 , 140 , 1862.
- [27] G. X. Wang, S. Zhong, D. H. Bradhurst, S. X. Dou, H. K. Liu, J. Power Sources 1998 , 76 , 141.
- [28] a) E. Hu, X. Yu, R. Lin, X. Bi, J. Lu, S. Bak, K.-W. Nam, H. L. Xin, C. Jaye, D. A. Fischer, K. Amine, X.-Q. Yang, Nat. Energy 2018 , 3 , 690; b) J. R. Croy, H. Iddir, K. Gallagher, C. S. Johnson, R. Benedek, M. Balasubramanian, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2015 , 17 , 24382.
- [29] S. Myeong, W. Cho, W. Jin, J. Hwang, M. Yoon, Y. Yoo, G. Nam, H. Jang, J.-G. Han, N.-S. Choi, M. G. Kim, J. Cho, Nat. Commun. 2018 , 9 , 3285.
- [30] J. Bareño, M. Balasubramanian, S. H. Kang, J. G. Wen, C. H. Lei, S. V. Pol, I. Petrov, D. P. Abraham, Chem. Mater. 2011 , 23 , 2039.
- [31] Y. Li, M. Bettge, B. Polzin, Y. Zhu, M. Balasubramanian, D. P. Abraham, J. Electrochem. Soc. 2013 , 160 , A3006.
- [32] J. R. Croy, D. Kim, M. Balasubramanian, K. Gallagher, S.-H. Kang, M. M. Thackeray, J. Electrochem. Soc. 2012 , 159 , A781.
- [33] Y. Zhang, C. Yin, B. Qiu, G. Chen, Y. Shang, Z. Liu, Energy Storage Mater. 2022 , 53 , 763.
- [34] J. Zhang, Q. Wang, S. Li, Z. Jiang, S. Tan, X. Wang, K. Zhang, Q. Yuan, S.-J. Lee, C. J. Titus, K. D. Irwin, D. Nordlund, J.-S. Lee, P. Pianetta, X. Yu, X. Xiao, X.-Q. Yang, E. Hu, Y. Liu, Nat. Commun. 2020 , 11 , 6342.
- [35] V. Pimenta, M. Sathiya, D. Batuk, A. M. Abakumov, D. Giaume, S. Cassaignon, D. Larcher, J.-M. Tarascon, Chem. Mater. 2017 , 29 , 9923.
- [36] a) J. R. Croy, K. G. Gallagher, M. Balasubramanian, B. R. Long, M. M. Thackeray, J. Electrochem. Soc. 2013 , 161 , A318; b) T. Ohzuku, M. Nagayama, K. Tsuji, K. Ariyoshi, J. Mater. Chem. 2011 , 21 , 10179.
- [37] S.-H. Yu, T. Yoon, J. Mun, S. Park, Y .-S. Kang, J.-H. Park, S. M. Oh, Y .-E. Sung, J. Mater. Chem. A 2013 , 1 , 2833.
- [38] H. Li, N. Zhang, J. Li, J. R. Dahn, J. Electrochem. Soc. 2018 , 165 , A2985.
- [39] H. Yu, Y.-G. So, Y. Ren, T. Wu, G. Guo, R. Xiao, J. Lu, H. Li, Y. Yang, H. Zhou, R. Wang, K. Amine, Y. Ikuhara, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2018 , 140 , 15279.
- [40] C. R. Fell, D. Qian, K. J. Carroll, M. Chi, J. L. Jones, Y . S. Meng, Chem. Mater. 2013 , 25 , 1621.
- [41] S. Muhammad, H. Kim, Y. Kim, D. Kim, J. H. Song, J. Yoon, J.-H. Park, S.-J. Ahn, S.-H. Kang, M. M. Thackeray, W.-S. Yoon, NanoEnergy 2016 , 21 , 172.

Adv. Energy Mater. 2024 , 14 , 2403374

www.advenergymat.de

- [42] W.-S. Yoon, M. Balasubramanian, K. Y. Chung, X.-Q. Yang, J. McBreen, C. P. Grey, D. A. Fischer, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2005 , 127 , 17479.
- [43] H.-J. Shin, J. T. Kim, A. Y . Kim, N. Noh, J. Park, C. R. Park, S. Yu, H. Kim, K. Y. Chung, J. M. Yuk, S.-T. Myung, H.-G. Jung, Adv. Energy Mater. 2023 , 13 , 2301220.
- [44] T. Shi, Y .-Q. Zhang, Q. Tu, Y . Wang, M. C. Scott, G. Ceder, J. Mater. Chem. A 2020 , 8 , 17399.
- [45] S. H. Jung, U. H. Kim, J. H. Kim, S. Jun, C. S. Yoon, Y. S. Jung, Y. K. Sun, Adv. Energy Mater. 2019 , 10 , 1903360.
- [46] W. Zhang, D. Schröder, T. Arlt, I. Manke, R. Koerver, R. Pinedo, D. A. Weber, J. Sann, W. G. Zeier, J. Janek, J. Mater. Chem. A 2017 , 5 , 9929.
- [47] a) Y. Sakka, H. Yamashige, A. Watanabe, A. Takeuchi, M. Uesugi, K. Uesugi, Y. Orikasa, J. Mater. Chem. A 2022 , 10 , 16602; b) C. Lee, J. Y. Kim, K. Y. Bae, T. Kim, S.-J. Jung, S. Son, H.-W. Lee, Energy Storage Mater. 2024 , 66 , 103196.
- [48] A. Y. Kim, F. Strauss, T. Bartsch, J. H. Teo, T. Hatsukade, A. Mazilkin, J. Janek, P. Hartmann, T. Brezesinski, Chem. Mater. 2019 , 31 , 9664.
- [49] W. Zhang, T. Leichtweiss, S. P. Culver, R. Koerver, D. Das, D. A. Weber, W. G. Zeier, J. Janek, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2017 , 9 , 35888.
- [50] X. Sun, S. Hori, Y. Li, Y . Yamada, K. Suzuki, M. Hirayama, R. Kanno, J. Mater. Chem. A 2021 , 9 , 4117.
- [51] F. Walther, R. Koerver, T. Fuchs, S. Ohno, J. Sann, M. Rohnke, W. G. Zeier, J. Janek, Chem. Mater. 2019 , 31 , 3745.
- [52] T. Kim, K. Kim, S. Lee, G. Song, M. S. Jung, K. T. Lee, Chem. Mater. 2022 , 34 , 9159.
- [53] F. Walther, F. Strauss, X. Wu, B. Mogwitz, J. Hertle, J. Sann, M. Rohnke, T. Brezesinski, J. Janek, Chem. Mater. 2021 , 33 , 2110.
- [54] Y. Sun, K. Suzuki, K. Hara, S. Hori, T.-a. Yano, M. Hara, M. Hirayama, R. Kanno, J. Power Sources 2016 , 324 , 798.
- [55] X. Li, Z. Ren, M. Norouzi Banis, S. Deng, Y. Zhao, Q. Sun, C. Wang, X. Yang, W. Li, J. Liang, X. Li, Y . Sun, K. Adair, R. Li, Y . Hu, T.-K. Sham, H. Huang, L. Zhang, S. Lu, J. Luo, X. Sun, ACS Energy Lett. 2019 , 4 , 2480.
- [56] T. Hakari, M. Deguchi, K. Mitsuhara, T. Ohta, K. Saito, Y. Orikasa, Y. Uchimoto, Y. Kowada, A. Hayashi, M. Tatsumisago, Chem. Mater. 2017 , 29 , 4768.
- [57] C. Cao, M. R. Carbone, C. Komurcuoglu, J. S. Shekhawat, K. Sun, H. Guo, S. Liu, K. Chen, S.-M. Bak, Y. Du, C. Weiland, X. Tong, D. A. Steingart, S. Yoo, N. Artrith, A. Urban, D. Lu, F. Wang, Cell Rep. Phys. Sci. 2024 , 5 , 101909.
- [58] C. Dietrich, R. Koerver, M. W. Gaultois, G. Kieslich, G. Cibin, J. Janek, W. G. Zeier, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2018 , 20 , 20088.
- [59] Y. Huang, L. Zhou, C. Li, Z. Yu, L. F. Nazar, ACS Energy Lett. 2023 , 8 , 4949.
- [60] K. Kim, T. Kim, G. Song, S. Lee, M. S. Jung, S. Ha, A. R. Ha, K. T. Lee, Adv. Sci. 2023 , 10 , 2303308.
- [61] I. S. Antonijevi´ c, G. V. Janji´ c, M. K. Milˇ ci´ c, S. D. Zari´ c, Cryst. Growth Des. 2016 , 16 , 632.
- [62] M. Congiu, A. Lanuti, A. di Carlo, C. F. O. Grae/uniFB00, Sol. Energy 2015 , 122 , 87.
- [63] W. D. Richards, L. J. Miara, Y . Wang, J. C. Kim, G. Ceder, Chem. Mater. 2015 , 28 , 266.
- [64] Y. Morino, S. Kanada, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2023 , 15 , 2979.
- [65] S. Kobayashi, H. Watanabe, T. Kato, F. Mizuno, A. Kuwabara, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2022 , 14 , 39459.