## Unraveling the Spatial Asynchronous Activation Mechanism of Oxygen Redox-Involved Cathode for High-Voltage Solid-State Batteries

Naifang Hu, Yu-Han Zhang, Yuan Yang, Hui Wu, Yuehui Liu, Congyi Hao, Yue Zheng, Deye Sun, Wenru Li, Jiedong Li, Zhiwei Hu, Ting-Shan Chan, Cheng-Wei Kao, Qingyu Kong, Xiaogang Wang, Shu-Chih Haw,* Jun Ma,* and Guanglei Cui*

Li-rich layered oxides (LRLO) exhibit significant potential for use in all-solid-state lithium batteries (ASSLBs) owing to their high capacities and wide range of operating voltages. However, the practical application of LRLO in ASSLBs is hindered by the severe failure of carrier transport at the solid-solid interface, which subsequently limits the electrochemical activity of these batteries. Here, the spatially asynchronous activation mechanism of the LRLO in ASSLBs is presented. A spectroscopic study extending from the surface into the bulk interior of LRLO indicates that the activation kinetics of anionic oxygen prefers hysteretic delivery over uniform delivery and fast transition metals (TMs) activation. This spatial hetero activation is dominated by the failure of carrier transport at the interface, which is induced by microstructural defects in the composite cathode. This study is expected to facilitate the microstructural design of high-performance LRLO-based ASSLBs.

## 1. Introduction

All-solid-state lithium batteries (ASSLBs) are considered mainstream electrochemical energy storage technology owing to their high energy density and relative safety. [ 1] However, the cathode

N. Hu, Y.-H. Zhang, Y. Yang, Y. Liu, C. Hao, Y. Zheng, D. Sun, W. Li, J. Li,

X. Wang, J. Ma, G. Cui

Qingdao Industrial Energy Storage Research Institute

Qingdao Institute of Bioenergy and Bioprocess Technology

Chinese Academy of Sciences

Qingdao 266101, P. R. China

E-mail: majun@qibebt.ac.cn; cuigl@qibebt.ac.cn

N.Hu,Y.-H.Zhang,Y.Zheng,D.Sun,W.Li,X.Wang,J.Ma,G.Cui

ShandongEnergyInstitute

Qingdao266101,P.R.China

N.Hu,Y.-H.Zhang,Y.Zheng,D.Sun,W.Li,X.Wang,J.Ma,G.Cui

QingdaoNewEnergyShandongLaboratory

Qingdao266101,P.R.China

Y.-H. Zhang, G. Cui SchoolofFutureTechnology University of Chinese Academy of Sciences

Beijing 100049, P. R. China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202303797

DOI: 10.1002/aenm.202303797

materials that are currently being used in commercial batteries have been unable to achieve the long-term goal of high energy density ( ≥ 500 Wh kg -1 ) because of their low specific capacity ( ≤ 220 mAh g -1 ). [ 2] In comparison, Lirich layered oxides (LRLO), which are based on cationicand anionic-mixed redox reactions, deliver higher specific capacities ( ≈ 300 mAh g -1 ). [ 3] ASSLBs based on LRLO as the cathode material are therefore promising for the development of high-energy batteries. [4] The electrochemical performance of LRLO-based ASSLBs depends heavily on the level of activation of the anionic oxygen in LRLO, owing to its unique redox reaction mechanism. In recent studies, the existence of anionic redox reactions in LRLO-based ASSLBs was confirmed using various spectroscopic techniques, including traditional X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), [5] operando hard X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (HAXPES), [6] and resonant inelastic X-ray

H. Wu

CAS Key Laboratory of Green Process and Engineering Beijing Key Laboratory of Ionic Liquids Clean Process Institute of Process Engineering Chinese Academy of Sciences Beijing 100190, P. R. China

Z. Hu

Max Planck Institute for Chemical Physics of Solids D-01187 Dresden, Germany

T.-S. Chan, C.-W. Kao, S.-C. Haw National Synchrotron Radiation Research Center Hsinchu, Taiwan 30076, Republic of China

E-mail:

ho.kelman@nsrrc.org.tw

Q.Kong SynchrotronSoleil

L'OrmedesMerisiersSt-Aubin,Gif-sur-Yvette 91192, France

www.advancedsciencenews.com scattering (RIXS). [4b] However, limited attention has been paid to the restrained activation of LRLO during the initial and subsequent cycles. Previously, [ 7] we used scanning transmission electron microscopy combined with in situ di/uniFB00erential phase contrast imaging (in situ DPC-STEM) to investigate the mechanism responsible for limiting the activation of LRLO under di/uniFB00erent charge bias voltages during the initial stages of the charging process. This investigation revealed the evolution of two separate LiTMO2 and Li 2 MnO3 nanoscale phases in the LRLO, which induced a high impedance at the Li2MnO3 domain/Li 6 PS5 Cl interface, thus hindering Li + transport, which is the main factor restricting the activation of LRLO in ASSLBs. Additionally, considering that the solid-solid contact di/uniFB00ers from the solid-liquid contact in lithium-ion batteries based on a liquid electrolyte and the poor compatibility between LRMO and the solid electrolyte, the restricted transfer kinetics of lithium ions at the solid/solid interface probably has a frustrating influence on the activation of transition metal cations (TMs) and anionic oxygen in LRLObased ASSLBs. Unfortunately, neither the activation behavior of the TMs and anionic oxygen, nor the causes of the limited activation have been fully investigated and addressed under practical testing conditions in LRLO-based ASSLBs.

In this regard, soft X-ray absorption spectroscopy (sXAS), which exploits the relationship between the absorption coe/uniFB03cient and X-ray energy, can provide microscopic information, such as the type of atom, chemical state, and local environment, without being a/uniFB00ected by the morphology or physical-chemical states of the sample. [ 8] The use of di/uniFB00erent detection modes enables the electronic structures of the studied element in the surface ( ≈ 5 nm in the TEY model) and bulk regions (100-200 nm in the FY model) to be resolved in a single detection. [8a,d,9] In 3 d TM oxides, the spectral features and energy positions of 3 d TM L 3 -edge sXAS spectra are extremely sensitive to their local environment, [10] oxidation states, [ 11] and spin states. [ 12] The preedge peak below 533 eV in the O K -edge sXAS spectra corresponds to electron transfer from the O 1 s orbitals to the O 2 p orbitals hybridized with the unoccupied TM 3 d e g orbitals. [ 9,13] Therefore, the position and intensity of this pre-edge peak are typically used to evaluate the oxidation states of 3 d TMelements due to 3 d -O2 p mixing; in particular, an increase in the oxidation state causes the pre-edge peak to shift toward a lower energy and enhances its intensity owing to an increase in the covalence between TM3 d and O 2 p . [ 14] Against this background, sXAS technology is a powerful tool for revealing the activation mechanism of the LRLO by simultaneously enabling the evolution of the electronic structure to be monitored and the variation in the local environment at di/uniFB00erent depths to be probed during the cycling process. In a previous study [13a] we used sXAS to explore the activation state of the LRLO in ASSLBs during the initial cycle. The results revealed that the sluggish Li + transport kinetics in the Li2MnO3 phase and the severe reaction at the LRLO/Li 6 PS5 Cl interface collectively suppressed the oxygen activation reaction. However, the activation mechanism in the bulk and surface regions of LRLO is yet to be thoroughly studied. In addition, the evolution of the spatial and temporal activation states of TM and O during longterm cycling has not yet been studied. Ultimately, our limited understanding of the activation kinetics of anionic oxygen has prevented the realization of high-capacity LRLO-based solid-state batteries.

www.advenergymat.de

Herein, we present our study of the activation mechanism of the Li-rich cathode Li 1.2 Ni 0.16 Co0.08 Mn0.56O2 (LLO) in ASSLBs at di/uniFB00erent temperatures and at di/uniFB00erent points in time during cycling. These results indicate the spatial heterogeneity of TMs and Oactivation within LLO from the surface to the bulk phase. TMs activation occurs rapidly, whereas O activation demonstrates spatial hysteresis from the surface to the bulk and is significantly dependent on the operating temperature and number of cycles. This spatial heterogeneity is highly correlated with the failure of carriers to be transported across the interface due to the microstructural defects of the composite cathode. This study provides new ideas for the development of high-performance LRLObased ASSLBs from the perspective of microstructural design.

## 2. Results and Discussion

The electrochemical behavior of LLO in ASSLBs was initially evaluated at 30 (labeled LLO-30) and 50 ° C (labeled LLO-50), respectively, with Li 6 PS5 Cl (LPSCl) as the electrolyte layer and LiIn alloy as the anode. As shown in Figure 1 a, LLO-30 demonstrates a slow increase in the discharge capacity from the 1 st cycle (108.2 mAh g -1 ) to the 40 th cycle (221.7 mAh g -1 ), whereupon the capacity stabilizes during subsequent cycling. In contrast, the capacity of LLO-50 undergoes rapid activation from 170.7 to 285.4 mAh g -1 during the initial 14 cycles. This significant temperature dependence of the LLO capacity activation in ASSLBs can be visualized in the bar graph in the inset. In contrast, LLO in liquid-state batteries (LBs, Figure S3a, Supporting Information) experience strong activation during the initial cycle to exhibit a higher initial discharge capacity of 257.8 mAh g -1 at 0.1 C and maintain a stable capacity output ( ≈ 190 mAh g -1 ) at 1 C in subsequent cycles. Figure 1b shows the initial charge-discharge curves of LLO-30 and LLO-50. Region I (OCV -3.9 V) corresponds to the chemically and electrochemically mediated oxidative decomposition of LPSCl in the composite cathode, [15] which is consistent with the appearance of Ox1 peaks ( ≈ 3.5 V) on the d Q /d V curves (Figure 1c,d). Region II (3.9-4.4 V) is associated with the electrochemical activation of TMs (Ni 2 + , Co 3 + ) in the LiTMO 2 phase of LLO. [16] Compared with LLO-30, the TMs in LLO-50 were activated slightly faster, as indicated by the intensification of the Ox3 peak and the higher capacity contribution. The charging plateau in region III ( &gt; 4.4 V) mainly represents the activation of O 2 -within the Li 2 MnO3 phase of LLO, [16,17] and the characteristics of this plateau were distinctly di/uniFB00erent for LLO-30 and LLO-50. The negligible charging plateau and low Ox4 peak intensity observed for LLO-30 are indicative of severely limited oxygen activation. Despite the large discrepancy with LBs (Figure S3b, Supporting Information), the activation level of O 2 -in LLO-50 was still quite high. During the subsequent discharging process (Figure 1c,d), the intensity of the TMs (Ni, Co) reduction peak in LLO-30 increased consistently, whereas the corresponding peak of LLO-50 only changed to a minor extent. This demonstrates that TMs activation exhibits fast kinetics and that this activation is nearly completed during the initial charging process at 50 ° C. In contrast to the strong oxygen reactivity of LLO-50 (refer to the Ox4 peak in Figure 1d), oxygen activation in LLO-30 was severely inhibited (refer to the Ox4 peak in Figure 1c). This observation suggested that the oxygen activation kinetics in LLO-30 cells is slower than that in LLO-50 cells. Interestingly, a continuously increasing

www.advancedsciencenews.com

Figure 1. a) Cycle performance and b) corresponding initial charge-discharge curves of LLO-based ASSLBs at 0.1 C (1 C = 250 mA g -1 ) within the 2.0-4.7 V at 30 and 50 ° C, respectively. d Q /d V profiles at 0.1 C within the 2.0-4.7 V at c) 30 and d) 50 ° C, respectively.

capacity contribution of Mn ions was detected for LLO-50 during subsequent cycles, and this was attributed to the restored Mn ion activity induced by oxygen loss at high voltage and elevated temperature. [8d,18] The LBs and ASSLBs were subjected to cyclic voltammetry (CV) experiments (Figure S4, Supporting Information) to confirm the sluggish oxygen activation kinetics in LLO30. The charge-discharge curves of the same ASSLB before and after changing the testing temperature are shown in Figure S5 (Supporting Information). Clearly, the oxygen activation plateau is hardly observable during the initial two cycles. Moreover, TMs oxidation is also suppressed because of the significant polarization in ASSLBs at 30 ° C. Upon increasing the testing temperature to 50 ° C, the TMs activation is e/uniFB00ectively enhanced during the 3 rd cycle. A noticeable oxygen activation plateau at ≈ 4.5 V appears in the 3 rd cycle and persists in subsequent cycles. The electrochemical behavior at various testing temperatures and cycling stages clarify the asynchronous activation characteristics of LLO in ASSLBs, which exist in both the TMs and O activation processes. In summary, the activation of oxygen in ASSLBs is a sluggish and enduring process compared with the fast activation kinetics of the TMs.

Both in situ XRD and HRTEM ( Figure 2 ) were used to monitor the evolution of the crystal structure of LLO in the ASSLBs. The shift in the position of the (003) peak of LLO during in situ XRD testing reflects the variation in the Li layer spacing and corresponds to the change in the lattice parameter c during Li + intercalation-deintercalation. [ 19] During the initial chargedischarge process, the variations of the (003) peak ( ≈ 18.53 ° ) and the c -parameter from the LiTMO 2 phase were reversibly changed (Figure 2a; Figure S6a, Supporting Information), but with a limited degree due to the low capacity of ASSLBs used in situ XRD testing. In contrast, both the position and intensity of the (020) peak ( ≈ 20.32 ° ) of the Li 2 MnO3 phase remained nearly unchanged. [20] Furthermore, the (020) peak was still observed during the 4 th cycling process, albeit with a slightly lower peak intensity and increased capacity contribution (Figure 2b; Figure S7a, Supporting Information). These results demonstrate the significantly suppressed activity of Li 2 MnO3 inLLO-30, which closely reflects the limited oxygen activation. The XRD patterns of LLO in the fully charged and discharged states during in situ testing (Figure S7b, Supporting Information) further reveal the restrained activation of TMs and O in the bulk region of LLO during subsequent cycling at 30 ° C. For the purpose of comparison, ex situ XRDwasemployedto examine the pristine-RT (composite cathode stored at 30 ° C for 24 h), 1 st -C-RT (1 st charged to 4.7 V at 0.1 C and 30 ° C), 1 st -DC-RT (1 st discharged to 2.0 V at 0.1 C and 30 ° C), 2 nd -C-RT (2 nd charged to 4.7 V at 0.1 C and 30 ° C), pristine-HT (composite cathode stored at 50 ° C for 24 h), 1 st -CHT (1 st charged to 4.7 V at 0.1 C and 50 ° C), 1 st -DC-HT (1 st discharged to 2.0 V at 0.1 C and 50 ° C), 2 nd -C-HT (2 nd charged to

www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.advenergymat.de

Figure 2. In situ XRD patterns of LLO during the a) 1 st and b) 4 th cycle at 30 ° C. c) Ex situ XRD patterns of composite cathodes at pristine state for 30 ° C (pristine-RT), 50 ° C (pristine-HT), initial charged state (1 st -C-RT, 1 st -C-HT), initial discharged state (1 st -DC-RT, 1 st -DC-HT), and secondly charged state (2 nd -C-RT, 2 nd -C-HT), respectively. d) HRTEM images with fast Fourier transform (FFT) of LLO collected after the 4 th cycle at 0.1 C and 30 ° C.

4.7 V at 0.1 C and 50 ° C) samples, and the results are displayed in Figure 2c. The prominent variation of the (003) peak and the c -parameter in LLO-50 forms a sharp contrast to that in LLO-30. Additionally, the fact that the (020) peak from the Li 2 MnO3 phase almost disappeared in 1 st -C-HT, indicates the activation of the Li 2 MnO3 phase in the bulk LLO-50, which corresponds to accelerated oxygen activation. Figure 2d shows an HRTEM image of LLO-30 after the 4 th cycle in the fully charged state. In bulk region (I), the (020) plane with an interplanar spacing of 0.427 nm was detected, which is consistent with the XRD results of the fully charged state (Figure S7, Supporting Information) after the 4 th cycle. This phenomenon further verified the limited O activation in bulk LLO-30. The pure Li 2 MnO3 sample (Figure S8a-c, Supporting Information) exhibited the same lattice fringes as the LLO sample in the charged state after the 4 th cycle. In surface region (II) of LLO, a spinel phase with a (222) plane and an interplanar spacing of 0.232 nm was detected, [ 20b,21] which resulted from the side reaction between LLO and LPSCl, as well as the gradual layered to spinel structure transition of LLO during the charge-discharge process. Figure S9 (Supporting Information) shows the Ni K -, Co K -, and Mn K -edges hard X-ray absorption spectra (hXAS) of LLO-30 during the initial cycle. These results demonstrate the relatively facile activation of Ni and Co ions in the bulk region of LLO-30, whereas the Mn ions remained in the Mn 4 + state, which verifies the restrained Li 2 MnO3 activation. [9]

The combination of in situ XRD, HRTEM, and hXAS clearly reveals the finite variations in the crystal structure of the LiTMO 2 and Li 2 MnO3 phases during Li + intercalation-deintercalation at 30 ° C. These results additionally confirm the limited activation of LLO in ASSLBs, especially for anionic oxygen in the bulk region of LLO-30.

To comprehensively understand the asynchronous activation mechanism of LLO in ASSLBs, sXAS spectra were recorded to determine the evolution of the electronic structures of TM and O. The surface-sensitive total electron yield (TEY, probing depth of ≈ 4 nm) and the bulk-sensitive inverse partial fluorescence yield (iPFY, probing depth of 100-200 nm) modes of TM L 3 -edge sXAS spectra ( Figure 3 ; Figures S10-S14, Supporting Information) are used to determine their surface and bulk electronic structures in the fully charged state (4.7 V) for di/uniFB00erent testing temperatures and cycles. The Mn oxidation state was quantified based on the Mn 2 + , Mn 3 + , and Mn 4 + reference spectra and shown in Figure 3a,b,e and Figure S10 (Supporting Information). In the TEY mode, the average valence of the Mn ion was + 3.98 with an intense Mn 4 + peak and a weak Mn 3 + peak in the surface region of the LLO sample. Owing to the side reactions at the cathode/electrolyte interface, the average valence of Mn on the surface of the pristine sample decreased to + 3.84. [ 13a] After initial charging to 4.7 V at 30 ° C, the average valence of Mn increased to + 4, accompanied by the disappearance of the Mn 2 + and Mn 3 +

www.advancedsciencenews.com

Figure 3. Ex situ sXAS of LLO, the pristine composite cathode (Pristine), and the fully charge-state (4.7 V) composite cathodes after various cycles, including the 1 st charge state at 30 ° C (1 st -C-RT), 1 st charge (1 st -C-HT), 12 th charge (12 th -C-HT), and 22 nd charge (22 nd -C-HT) states at 50 ° C. a) Mn L 3 -and c) O K -edges sXAS in the TEY mode. b) Mn L 3 - and d) O K -edges sXAS in the iPFY and TFY modes. Average oxidation state of e) Mn, f) Co, and g) Ni ions calculated from Mn L 3 -, Co L 3 -, and Ni L 3 -edges sXAS. h) Activation degree of O ions calculated from O K -edge sXAS.

peaks from the spectrum of the 1 st -C-RT sample as a result of the electrochemical oxidation of Mn ions. For the 1 st -C-HT sample, the average valence of Mn decreased slightly to + 3.99, with the simultaneous appearance of a low-intensity Mn 3 + peak. This peak corresponds to either the increased loss of surface oxygen (in situ DEMS, Figure S15b, Supporting Information) or the aggravated interfacial reaction between LLO and LPSCl (Figure S16, Supporting Information) at 50 ° C. During prolonged cycling, the average valence of Mn further declined, and this was accompanied by the emergence of strong Mn 2 + and Mn 3 + peaks, as observed for the 12 th -C-HT and 22 nd -C-HT samples. In the iPFY mode, the close resemblance of the Mn L3 -edge sXAS spectra of LLO to those of Pristine indicated that the electronic structure remained unchanged and that the same average valence of Mn 3.99 + prevailed in the bulk region (Figure 3b). After initial charging to 4.7 V at 30 ° C, Mn 3 + was electrochemically partially oxidized to Mn 4 + , although the variation in the average valence was small (Figure S10b, Supporting Information). However, the average valence decreased to + 3.91 when the temperature was elevated to 50 ° C, which is inferred to be related to the irreversible bulk oxygen loss after the initial charge. [ 8d] For the 12 th -C-HT and 22 nd -C-HT samples, the average valence of the Mn ion decreased markedly, with the main peak shifting to a lower energy and the peak intensity of Mn 3 + increasing. The above Mn L 3 -edge sXAS analysis reveals that the Mn ions are partially activated (Mn 4 + /Mn 3 + ) after the initial charge at 50 ° C due to the irreversible oxygen loss, especially in the bulk of LLO.

The oxidation states of Ni are shown in Figure 3g and Figures S11 and S12 (Supporting Information). Because of the reaction at the interface between LLO and the electrolyte, the valence of Ni on the surface of Pristine (Ni 2.02 + ) is slightly lower than that of LLO (Ni 2.04 + ). During initial charging to 4.7 V, the valence of Ni increases to + 3.34 at 30 ° C, followed by a slight increase to + 3.39 at 50 ° C, thereby indicating the rapid and uniform activation of Ni ions on the surface during the initial charging process. After the 12 th and 22 nd cycles, the average valence of Ni decreases to + 2.62 and + 2.50, respectively, accompanied by an enhancement of the characteristic peak of Ni 2 + . This increase in Ni 2 + implies that the electrochemical activity of the Ni ions on the cathode surface decreases after long-term cycling. [ 22] Figure S11b (Supporting Information) shows that the same oxidation state of Ni ( + 2.04) prevails in both the LLO and Pristine samples. After initial charging to 4.7 V, the average valence of Ni increases from + 3.30 to + 3.37 when the temperature increases from 30 to 50 ° C. This increase indicates the accelerated activation of Ni 2 + in the bulk at 50 ° C, albeit to a slightly lesser extent ( + 3.37 vs + 3.39) compared to that on the surface. After long-term cycling, the average valence of the Ni ions in the bulk region gradually decreased, accompanied by the appearance of a prominent Ni 2 + peak. This is probably related to the degradation of the layered structure from the surface to the bulk. The oxidation state of Co ions is observed to similarly evolve (Figure 3f; Figures S13 and S14, Supporting Information). The Ni L 3 - and Co L 3 -edges sXAS analyses demonstrate that the Ni and Co ions are easily activated in both the bulk and surface

www.advancedsciencenews.com regions of LLO in ASSLBs during the initial charging process, especially at 50 ° C.

The O K -edge sXAS spectra are shown in Figure 3c,d and Figure S17 (Supporting Information) with NiO, LiNiO 3 , CoO, EuCoO3, BaCoO4 , and SrMnO 3 as references. Pre-peak A corresponds to the Mn 4 + ─ O2 p bond and pre-peak C is assigned to the Ni 2 + ─ O2 p or Mn e g ─ O2 p bonds. [23] The r -value was semiquantitatively calculated by the equation (where a and b represent the intensities of pre-peaks A and B, respectively, and b 0 refers to the intensity of pre-peak B in LLO) included in Figure 3c, which was introduced to estimate the degree of activation of oxygen ions at di/uniFB00erent temperatures and cycles (Figure 3h). On the cathode surface (Figure 3c), compared to LLO, the intensity of pre-peak Afor Pristine decreased, indicating a reduced Mn 4 + -O covalency due to the reduction of Mn 4 + ions (Figure 3a). At the same time, the disappearance of pre-peak C and appearance of pre-peak D were attributed to the interaction between LLO and LPSCl. For the 1 st -C-RT sample, the intensities of pre-peaks A and D decreased further, and this was accompanied by a shift of pre-peak A to lower energy. This de-intensification of the pre-peak is related to the change in the local coordination environment in the delithiated state, whereas the shift to lower photon energy confirms the enhanced TM 3 d -O2 p covalency caused by the higher TMoxidation states. Additionally, the new ultralow-intensity prepeak B ( ≈ 531 eV, r = 0.13) is closely related to the oxidation of oxygen, [9,13d,24b] and indicates the extremely limited activation of Oat 30 ° C. This result is consistent with those in Figure 1b,c. Notably, in the 1 st -C-HT sample, the intensity of pre-peaks A and D is significantly enhanced with a shift to lower photon energy, and is accompanied by the more prominent feature of pre-peak B with a higher r -value of 0.26, which strongly demonstrates the accelerated activation of O from O 2 -to O n -(0 &lt; n &lt; 2) at 50 ° C. [24] The enhanced oxidation of oxygen in 1 st -C-HT was further verified by the di/uniFB00erence in the signal of the per-oxo species (O 2 n -) on the EPR spectra (Figure S18, Supporting Information) at 77 K. [ 25] After the 12 th and22 nd cycles, the intensities of both pre-peaks A and Dgradually decreased with a shift to higher photon energy, which corresponds to a lower valence state of the TM. However, prepeak B intensified slightly, and the r -value subsequently reached 0.29 and 0.42, which confirms the slow activation kinetics of surface oxygen ions during long-term cycling. In the cathode bulk, compared to the pristine cathode, a slight shift to a lower photon energy of both pre-peaks A and C for 1 st -C-RT demonstrates enhanced TM3 d -O2 p covalency. Nevertheless, the degree of shifting in the bulk of the 1 st -C-RT sample was weaker than that on the cathode surface, and a weaker pre-peak B with a lower r -value of 0.03 is also observed. For the 1 st -C-HT sample, both pre-peaks A and C continued to shift toward lower photon energies, and pre-peak B was clearly observed with an elevated r -value of 0.18. These changes, along with the variations in the TM L 3 -edge sXAS spectra, further confirm the accelerated activation of bulk oxygen during the initial charging process at 50 ° C. After the 12 th and 22 nd cycles, pre-peaks A and C persistently shifted toward higher photon energies with reduced peak intensity, while the intensity of pre-peak B continued to increase with increased r -values of 0.21 and 0.22. The change in the O K -edge spectra near 528.0 eV also confirms the variation in the degree of oxidation of anionic oxygen in the bulk and surface regions, and this is explained in detail in Figure S17 (Supporting Information). The above O K -

www.advenergymat.de edge sXAS analysis reveals that oxygen activation in both the bulk and surface regions is a sluggish process throughout long-term cycling in LLO-based ASSLBs. In summary, the combination of O K - and TM L 3 -edges sXAS analysis revealed a spatially asynchronous activation process of LLO in ASSLBs. This process typically starts at the surface and progresses into the bulk. The activation of LLO involves the activation of both the TMs (Ni, Co), and O, with the activation of the TMs being a relatively rapid and homogeneous process that occurs mainly during the initial cycle, whereas the activation of O is a slower and spatially sluggish process that occurs mainly in the bulk region while ASSLBs are undergoing long-term cycling.

Considering the limited activation of LLO with spatially asynchronous features in ASSLBs, but not in LBs, one of the crucial factors is the failure of carrier transfer at the solid-solid interface owing to the blocked electron/ion transfer channels among the LLO, vapor-grown carbon fibers (VGCF), and LPSCl within the composite cathode, in addition to the Li 2 MnO3 phaseinduced intrinsic poor electron and ion conductivity in LLO (Figure S19, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure 4 a, SEM and energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) revealed that the LLO, VGCF, and LPSCl components were not uniformly dispersed. This gives rise to a finitely e/uniFB00ective solid-solid contact area that impedes the high-speed transport of carriers in the composite cathode. [13a] In addition, the loose contact between LLO, VGCF, and LPSCl also causes numerous voids among these cathode components, thus disrupting the electron/ion transport channels (Figure 4b-d). These finite solid-solid contacts and blocked di/uniFB00usion channels undoubtedly contribute to the high charge transfer impedance at the solid-solid interface (Figure S20a, Table S1, Supporting Information), which limits e/uniFB03cient e -/Li + transport and ultimately limits the activation of LLO, particularly in terms of the anionic oxygen. Normally, the interfacial reaction between LLO and LPSCl inevitably a/uniFB00ects the electrochemical performance of LLO in ASSLBs. As confirmed by the XPS and sXAS results in Figures S16 and S21 (Supporting Information), the side reaction between LLO and LPSCl becomes more prominent as the operating temperature increases and cycling is prolonged. This is accompanied by the formation of side products, such as oxygenated deposited species, SO x n -, TM-S species, PO 4 2 -, P 2 S5, etc, [ 13a,26] which is detrimental to fast Li + transport. Notably, in this study, the elevated operating temperature and long-term cycling distinctly accelerated the activation of LLO, particularly the anionic oxygen in ASSLBs. Combined with the SEM, XPS, and EIS results, the above-mentioned results confirm that the failure of carrier transport at the interface, caused by the finite solid-solid interface contact area and the blocked channels in the composite cathode, is the most important factor responsible for inhibiting rapid Li + di/uniFB00usion and most certainly leads to the asynchronous activation of LLO in ASSLBs. Inspired by this, a strategy for the microstructure regulation of the composite cathode is proposed using a liquid phase method (LPM) with low-polar n-hexane. The SEM and EDS characterization manifest a more homogeneous dispersion and dense contact with reduced voids between LLO and LPSCl in the composite cathode based on LPM (Figure S22, Supporting Information). The electrochemical results confirm that the optimized microstructure of the composite cathode reduces the resistance of interfacial carrier transport and enhances the

www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.advenergymat.de

Figure 4. a,b) Typical SEM and the corresponding EDS mappings of pristine composite cathode prepared by the solid phase method (SPM). c,d) The cross-section SEM images of pristine composite cathode. e) Schematic diagrams illustrating the spatial asynchronous activation of LLO in ASSLBs.

activation of LLO, thereby improving the electrochemical performance of ASSLBs at 30 ° C (Figure S23 and Table S2, Supporting Information).

## 3. Conclusion

In summary, in this study, we unraveled the mechanism whereby the LLO in ASSLBs undergoes spatially asynchronous activation. The activation process involves the gradual activation of O and TMs from the surface to the bulk. TMs activation occurs predominantly during the initial charging process and is relatively rapid and uniform, whereas oxygen activation is a continuous process that occurs throughout the long-term cycling of ASSLBs and is slower and spatially sluggish. The spatially asynchronous activation of LLO in ASSLBs is closely related to the failure of carrier transport at the solid-solid interface owing to microstructural defects in the composite cathode. Our study highlighted the optimization of the microstructure of composite cathode as being essential for enhancing the anionic redox kinetics. Our findings are expected to facilitate the development of high-performance LLO-based ASSLBs.

## 4. Experimental Section

The Synthesis of LLO Cathode Materials : The single-crystal Li-rich layered oxide, Li 1.2 Ni 0.16 Co 0.08 Mn0.56 O 2 (LLO), was synthesized through the co-precipitation method and subsequent high-temperature solid reaction at a high temperature. Specifically, a 2 mol L -1 transition metal solution

www.advancedsciencenews.com

(NiSO 4 .6H 2 O, CoSO 4 .7H 2 O, MnSO 4 .H 2 O, AR, purchased from Shanghai McLean Biochemical Technology Co., Ltd) was pumped into a continuously stirred tank reactor (CSTR). Meanwhile, the 4 mol L -1 NaOHsolution (AR, purchased from Shanghai McLean Biochemical Technology Co., Ltd) was simultaneously added into the CSTR along with the desired content of NH 3 · H2 O solution (25-28 wt%, purchased from Beijing Chemical Factory Co., Ltd) under the N 2 atmosphere. During the co-precipitation reaction, the temperature, pH, and stirring rate were maintained at 45 ° C, 10.7, and 850 rpm, respectively. After aging for another 10 h in the CSTR with 500 rpm, the obtained hydroxide precursor was washed with deionized water and dried at 120 ° C for 24 h. The final LLO was obtained by annealing the mixture of the hydroxide precursor and LiOH · H2 O (AR, purchased from Aladdin Industrial Company) with a 5% content excess at 500 ° C for 5 h and subsequent 850 ° C for 15 h with a heating rate of 2 ° C min -1 under O 2 atmosphere.

The Synthesis of Sulfide Solid Electrolyte Li 6 PS 5 Cl : The stoichiometric mixture of Li 2 S (AR, purchased from Alfa-Asear supplier), P 2 S 5 (AR, purchased from Shanghai McLean Biochemical Technology Co., Ltd) , and LiCl (AR, purchased from Shanghai McLean Biochemical Technology Co., Ltd) was ball-milled at 550 rpm for 2 h in a ZrO 2 jar with a planetary ball mill. Then, the precursor was annealed at 550 ° C for 10 h with a heating rate of 5 ° C min -1 under an Ar atmosphere to obtain the Li 6 PS 5 Cl solid electrolyte. To achieve the desired size, the solid electrolyte was further ground by hand in a mortar.

The Synthesis of Composite Cathode Materials : The composite cathode materials prepared by the solid phase method (SPM) were as follows: a mixture weighing 120 mg of LLO, 180 mg of Li 6 PS 5 Cl, and 9 mg of VGCF was prepared in an Ar-filled glove box with both H 2 O and O 2 contents below 0.1 ppm. The mixture was hand-milled in a mortar for 1 h to ensure the proper dispersion of the di/uniFB00erent components in the composite cathode materials. The composite cathode prepared by the liquid phase method (LPM) was as follows: 180 mg of Li 6 PS 5 Cl was added into 1.5 g of n -hexane and stirred for 0.5 h at room temperature in an Ar-filled glove box with both H 2 Oand O2 contents below 0.1 ppm. Then 120 mg of LLO and 9 mg of VGCF were added into the Li 6 PS 5 Cl suspension solution and stirred for another 10 h. The resulting composite cathode suspension solution was placed in a vacuum pipe connected to the Ar-filled glove box and dried at 75 ° C for 2 h. Finally, the mixture powder was annealed at 170 ° C for 5 h and hand-milled in a mortar for 0.5 h to ensure the proper dispersion of the di/uniFB00erent components in the composite cathode.

Batteries Preparation and Electrochemical Measurements : The solidstate batteries were composed of composite cathode materials (LLO: Li 6 PS 5 Cl: VGCF = 40: 60: 3, weight ratio), Li 6 PS 5 Cl electrolyte layer, and lithium-indium anode. A high fabrication pressure of 620 MPa was applied in the mechanical solid battery device to ensure compact contact between the di/uniFB00erent components. The electrochemical measurements were conducted between 2.0 and 4.7 V (vs Li + /Li) at a current density of 0.1 C (1 C = 250 mA g -1 ) at either 30 or 50 ° C. All the potentials throughout this work were in reference to the Li + /Li couple.

The electrochemical performances of LLO in liquid batteries (LBs) were tested using CR2025 coin cells. The cathodic electrode was fabricated by blending LLO, conductive agent (Super P), and binder agent (PVDF) with a mass ratio of 8: 1: 1 in N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone (NMP) solvent. The mixture was then coated on the Al foil and dried at 100 ° C in a vacuum oven for 24 h. The lithium metal and Celgard 2400 membrane were used as the counter electrode and separator, respectively. The liquid electrolyte consisted of 1 M LiPF 6 dissolving into the mixture of ethylene carbonate (EC) and dimethyl carbonate (DMC) with a mass ratio of 3: 7. The coin cells were electrochemically cycled between 2.0 and 4.7 V at 0.5 C at 30 ° C after three cycles activation at 0.1 C.

The cyclic voltammograms (CV) tests were conducted on the electrochemical workstation (VMP-300, Biologic) with the scan rate of 0.05, 0.1, or 0.5 mV s -1 between 2.0 and 4.7 V at either 30 or 50 ° C for ASSLBs and LBs, respectively. The electrochemical impedance spectra (EIS) were carried out from 0.01 to 10 5 Hz at the discharged state at either 30 or 50 ° C for ASSLBs using the same electrochemical workstation.

In Situ X-Ray Di/uniFB00raction Spectroscopy (In Situ XRD) Characterization of LLO in ASSLBs : The structural variation of the LLO during the charging-

www.advenergymat.de discharging process in ASSLBs was characterized using in situ XRD. Prior to the in situ XRD characterization, the lab-designed in situ solid-state battery was assembled in the glove box. Specifically, 80 mg of electrolyte Li 6 PS 5 Cl was filled into the peek mold with a pressure-resistant base, and a pressure of 150 MPa was maintained for 1 min. Subsequently, 10.09 mg of composite cathode material (4 mg of LLO, 6 mg of Li 6 PS 5 Cl, and 0.09 mg of VGCF) was dispersed onto the electrolyte. The positive electrode composite was subjected to a pressure of 620 MPa for 2 min. Finally, a negative lithium-indium alloy anode sheet was placed on the other side of the electrolyte and a pressure of 100 MPa was applied for 2 min. After that, the pressure-resistant base was replaced by the beryllium window and carefully assembled with proper mechanical pressure to isolate the air before testing. The X-ray penetrated into the composite cathode material through the beryllium window of the ASSLB. X-ray di/uniFB00raction spectroscopy (XRD, Smartlab-9, Cu Ka radiation source) was employed with a step size of 0.01 ° and a scan rate of 10 ° min -1 between 10 and 50 ° during the charge-discharge process of ASSLB at 0.1 C, 30 ° C between 2.0 and 4.7 V.

In Situ Di/uniFB00erential Electrochemical Mass Spectrometry (In situ DEMS) Detection of LLO-Based ASSLBs : The detection of gas generation from ASSLBsduring the charge-discharge process was conducted using DEMS. Before the DEMS characterization, an in situ battery equipped with the gas injection and outlet passage was assembled in the glove box. Specifically, 150 mg of electrolyte Li 6 PS 5 Cl was filled into the peek mold with a pressure-resistant base, and a pressure of 150 MPa was maintained for 1 min. Subsequently, 25.225 mg of composite cathode material (10 mg of LLO, 15 mg of Li 6 PS 5 Cl, and 0.225 mg of VGCF) was dispersed onto the electrolyte. The positive electrode composite was subjected to a pressure of 620 MPa for 2 min. Finally, a lithium-indium alloy anode sheet was placed on the other side of the electrolyte and a pressure of 100 MPa was applied for 2 min. After that, the ASSLB was assembled with 200 MPa of mechanical pressure to isolate the air before testing. The gas carrier for the DEMS characterization during the charge-discharge process of ASSLB at 0.1 C between 2.0 and 4.7 V at 30, 50 ° C was selected as Ar with 1 mL min -1 .

Material Characterization : Field-emission scanning electron microscopy (SEM, Hitachi, 5 kV) with energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) was used to characterize the morphology and element distribution of LLO particles. High-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM, JEOL, JEM-2100F, 200 kV) was applied to characterize the nanocrystal structure of the materials. X-ray di/uniFB00raction spectroscopy (XRD, Smartlab9, Cu Ka radiation source) was used to analyze the crystal structure of LLO with a step size of 0.01 ° and scanning rate of 10 ° min -1 . X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS, ESCALAB 250Xi) equipped with an Al K /u1D6FC achromatic X-ray source in a fully enclosed condition was used to characterize the surface chemical environment of LLO. Electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy (EPR) was performed at 77 K on a Bruker EMXPlus-A300 spectrometer equipped with a dual-mode microwave cavity and a liquid nitrogen cryostat to detect the oxidized oxygen species in the cathode material. The O K -edge soft X-ray absorption spectroscopy (sXAS) was collected based on the total electron yield (TEY, probing depth of ≈ 4 nm) and total fluorescence yield (TFY) modes at beamline (BL) 20 A (60-1250 eV) of the National Synchrotron Radiation Research Center in Taiwan. The Ni L 3 -, Co L 3 -, and Mn L 3 -edges sXAS were carried out in both the TEY and bulk-sensitive inverse partial fluorescence yield (iPFY, probing depth of 100-200 nm) modes using a silicon drift detector with an energy resolution of ≈ 120 eV at BL 20A. The P K - and S K -edges XAS measurements in FY mode were carried out at BL 16A1 (1800-7500 eV) of the National Synchrotron Radiation Research Center in Taiwan. The Ni K -, Co K -, and Mn K -edges hXAS were performed at the optical dispersive EXAFS (ODE) beamline at the SOLEIL synchrotron in France.

## Supporting Information

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

www.advancedsciencenews.com

## Acknowledgements

N. Hu, Y.-H. Zhang, and Y. Yang contributed equally to this work. This work was financially supported by the National Key R&amp;D Program of China (2023YFC2812700) , Natural Science Foundation of Shandong Province (ZR2022QB166, ZR2021ZD25, ZR2020MB043), National Natural Science Foundation of China (21975274, 22379155), the Strategic Priority Research Program of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (XDA22010600), the Youth Innovation Promotion Association of CAS (2021210), the Foundation of Qingdao Postdoctoral Application Program (Y63302190F), the Natural Science Foundation of Qingdao Institute of Bioenergy and Bioprocess Technology (QIBEBT SZ202101), the Qingdao New Energy Shandong Laboratory (QIBEBT/SEI/QNESLS202304), and the Taishan Scholars Program (NO. tsqn202306308). The authors acknowledge support from the Max Planck-POSTECH-Hsinchu Center for Complex Phase Materials.

## Conflict of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest

## Data Availability Statement

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## Keywords

activation mechanism, all-solid-state batteries, anion oxygen, Li-rich cathode, spatial asynchrony

Received: November 8, 2023 Revised: December 20, 2023

Published online: January 4, 2024

- [1] a) J. Wu, S. Liu, F. Han, X. Yao, C. Wang, Adv. Mater. 2021 , 33 , 2000751; b) J. Wu, L. Shen, Z. Zhang, G. Liu, Z. Wang, D. Zhou, H. Wan, X. Xu, X. Yao, Electrochem. Energy. Rev. 2021 , 4 , 101; c) X. Zhang, X. Li, S. Weng, S. Wu, Q. Liu, M. Cao, Y. Li, Z. Wang, L. Zhu, R. Xiao, D. Su, X. Yu, H. Li, L. Chen, Z. Wang, X. Wang, Energy Environ. Sci. 2023 , 16 , 1091; d) Y. Liang, H. Liu, G. Wang, C. Wang, Y. Ni, C.-W. Nan, L.-Z. Fan, InfoMat 2022 , 4 , 12292; e) C. Hao, D. Adekoya, L. Hencz, J. Ma, S. Chen, C. Yan, H. Zhao, G. Cui, S. Zhang, Adv. Energy Mater. 2020 , 10 , 2000049.
- [2] H. Li, Energy Storage Sci. Technol. 2018 , 7 , 188.
- [3] a) C. Zhao, C. Li, H. Liu, Q. Qiu, F. Geng, M. Shen, W. Tong, J. Li, B. Hu, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2021 , 143 , 18652; b) S. Li, L. Yang, Z. Liu, C. Zhang, X. Shen, Y. Gao, Q. Kong, Z. Hu, C.-Y. Kuo, H.-J. Lin, C.-T. Chen, Y. Yang, J. Ma, Z. Hu, X. Wang, R. Yu, Z. Wang, L. Chen, Energy Storage Mater 2023 , 55 , 356; c) Y. Zuo, B. Li, N. Jiang, W. Chu, H. Zhang, R. Zou, D. Xia, Adv. Mater. 2018 , 30 , 1707255.
- [4] a) W. Du, Q. Shao, Y. Wei, C. Yan, P. Gao, Y. Lin, Y . Jiang, Y . Liu, X. Yu, M. Gao, W. Sun, H. Pan, ACS Energy Lett 2022 , 7 , 3006; b) Y. Wu, K. Zhou, F. Ren, Y. Ha, Z. Liang, X. Zheng, Z. Wang, W. Yang, M. Zhang, M.Luo, C. Battaglia, W. Yang, L. Zhu, Z. Gong, Y. Yang, Energy Environ. Sci. 2022 , 15 , 3470.
- [5] A. Zhang, J. Wang, R. Yu, H. Zhuo, C. Wang, Z. Ren, J. Wang, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2023 , 15 , 8190.
- [6] H. Kazuhiro, S. Keisuke, K. Hisao, H. Yoyo, S. Kota, H. Masaaki, M. Eiichiro, K. Ryoji, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2022 , 144 , 236.
- [7] B. Liu, N. Hu, C. Li, J. Ma, J. Zhang, Y. Yang, D. Sun, B. Yin, G. Cui, Angew. Chem.-Int. Edit. 2022 , 61 , 202209626.

Adv. Energy Mater. 2024 , 14 , 2303797

www.advenergymat.de

- [8] a) O. Masatsugu, F. Takahiro, T. Yu, O. Yuki, K. Atsushi, I. Toshiaki, Y. Hisao, T. Daiko, S. Kenji, M. Haruno, T. Hajime, A. Hajime, I. Hideshi, Y. Chihiro, W. Iwao, O. Toshiaki, M. Atsushi, U. Yoshiharu, O. Zempachi, J. Power Sources 2013 , 222 , 45; b) H. Koga, L. Croguennec, M. Ménétrier, P. Mannessiez, F. Weill, C. Delmas, S. Belin, J. Phys. Chem. C 2014 , 118 , 5700; c) B. Hu, X. Lou, C. Li, F. Geng, M. Yang, M. Shen, B. Hu, ChemElectroChem 2019 , 6 , 1385; d) Y.-H. Zhang, D. Zhang, L.-R. Wu, J. Ma, Q. Yi, Z. Wang, X. Wang, Z. Wu, C. Zhang, N. Hu, S.-C. Haw, J.-M. Chen, Z. Hu, G. Cui, Adv. Energy Mater. 2022 , 12 , 2202341.
- [9] S. Li, L. Yang, Z. Liu, C. Zhang, X. Shen, Y . Gao, Q. Kong, Z. Hu, C.-Y . Kuo, H.-J. Lin, C.-T. Chen, Y. Yang, J. Ma, Z. Hu, X. Wang, R. Yu, Z. Wang, L. Chen, Energy Storage Mater 2023 , 55 , 356.
- [10] a) T. Burnus, Z. Hu, H. Wu, J. C. Cezar, S. Niitaka, H. Takagi, C. F. Chang, N. B. Brookes, H.-J. Lin, L. Y. Jang, A. Tanaka, K. S. Liang, C. T. Chen, L. H. Tjeng, Phys. Rev. B 2008 , 77 , 205111; b) N. Hollmann, Z. Hu, M. Valldor, A. Maignan, A. Tanaka, H. H. Hsieh, H.-J. Lin, C. T. Chen, L. H. Tjeng, Phys. Rev. B 2009 , 80 , 085111.
- [11] a) C. Mitra, Z. Hu, P. Raychaudhuri, S. Wirth, S. I. Csiszar, H. H. Hsieh, H.-J. Lin, C. T. Chen, L. H. Tjeng, Phys. Rev. B 2003 , 67 , 092404; b) J. Schlappa, C. F. Chang, Z. Hu, E. Schierle, H. Ott, E. Weschke, G. Kaindl, M. Huijben, G. Rijnders, D. H. A. Blank, L. H. Tjeng, C. Schüßler-Langeheine, J. Phys.-Condes Matter 2012 , 24 , 035501.
- [12] a) S. Agrestini, C.-Y . Kuo, D. Mikhailova, K. Chen, P. Ohresser, T. W. Pi, H. Guo, A. C. Komarek, A. Tanaka, Z. Hu, L. H. Tjeng, Phys. Rev. B 2017 , 95 , 245131; b) J.-M. Chen, Y.-Y. Chin, M. Valldor, Z. Hu, J.-M. Lee, S.-C. Haw, N. Hiraoka, H. Ishii, C.-W. Pao, K.-D. Tsuei, J.-F. Lee, H.-J. Lin, L.-Y . Jang, A. Tanaka, C.-T. Chen, L. H. Tjeng, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2014 , 136 , 1514.
- [13] a) Y. Yang, N. Hu, Y.-H. Zhang, Y. Zheng, Z. Hu, C.-Y. Kuo, H.-J. Lin, C.-T. Chen, T.-S. Chan, C.-W. Kao, Y . Jin, J. Ma, G. Cui, ACSAppl. Mater. Interfaces 2023 , 15 , 30060; b) L. Tjeng, C. Chen, S.-W. Cheong, Phys. Rev. B 1992 , 45 , 8205; c) X. Zhong, M. Oubla, X. Wang, Y. Huang, H. Zeng, S. Wang, K. Liu, J. Zhou, L. He, H. Zhong, N. Alonso-Vante, C.W. Wang, W.-B. Wu, H.-J. Lin, C.-T. Chen, Z. Hu, Y. Huang, J. Ma, Nat. Commun. 2021 , 12 , 3136; d) R. A. House, U. Maitra, M. A. PérezOsorio, J. G. Lozano, L. Jin, J. W. Somerville, L. C. Duda, A. Nag, A. Walters, K.-J. Zhou, M. R. Roberts, P. G. Bruce, Nature 2020 , 577 , 502.
- [14] a) H. Guo, Z. W. Li, L. Zhao, Z. Hu, C. F. Chang, C.-Y . Kuo, W. Schmidt, A. Piovano, T. W. Pi, O. Sobolev, D. I. Khomskii, L. H. Tjeng, A. C. Komarek, Nat. Commun. 2018 , 9 , 43; b) Y . Y . Chin, Z. Hu, H.-J. Lin, S. Agrestini, J. Weinen, C. Martin, S. Hébert, A. Maignan, A. Tanaka, J. C. Cezar, N. B. Brookes, Y.-F. Liao, K.-D. Tsuei, C. T. Chen, D. I. Khomskii, L. H. Tjeng, Phys. Rev. B 2019 , 100 , 250139.
- [15] a) C. Yu, L. Van Eijck, S. Ganapathy, M. Wagemaker, Electrochim. Acta 2016 , 215 , 93; b) D. H. S. Tan, E. A. Wu, H. Nguyen, Z. Chen, M. A. T. Marple, J.-M. Doux, X. Wang, H. Yang, A. Banerjee, Y. S. Meng, ACS Energy Lett 2019 , 4 , 2418.
- [16] a) H. Yu, H. Kim, Y. Wang, P. He, D. Asakura, Y. Nakamura, H. Zhou, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2012 , 14 , 6584; b) G. Assat, D. Foix, C. Delacourt, A. Iadecola, R. Dedryvère, J.-M. Tarascon, Nat. Commun. 2017 , 8 , 2219.
- [17] a) M. M. Thackeray, S.-H. Kang, C. S. Johnson, J. T. Vaughey, R. Benedek, S. A. Hackney, J. Mater. Chem. 2007 , 17 , 3112; b) Z. Lu, J. R. Dahn, J. Electrochem. Soc 2002 , 149 , A815.
- [18] Y. X. Wang, K. H. Shang, W. He, X. P. Ai, Y. L. Cao, H. X. Yang, Acs Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2015 , 7 , 13014.
- [19] a) Z. Huang, T. Xiong, X. Lin, M. Tian, W. Zeng, J. He, M. Shi, J. Li, G. Zhang, L. Mai, S. Mu, J. Power Sources 2019 , 432 , 8; b) J. Shen, H. Li, H. Qi, Z. Lin, Z. Li, C. Zheng, W. Du, H. Chen, S. Zhang, J. Energy Chem. 2024 , 88 , 428; c) Y. Ma, P. Liu, Q. Xie, G. Zhang, H. Zheng, Y. Cai, Z. Li, L. Wang, Z.-Z. Zhu, L. Mai, D.-L. Peng, Nano Energy 2019 , 59 , 184.

## www.advancedsciencenews.com

- [20] a) X.-D. Zhang, J.-L. Shi, J.-Y . Liang, Y .-X. Yin, J.-N. Zhang, X.-Q. Yu, Y.-G. Guo, Adv. Mater. 2018 , 30 , 1801751; b) J. Sun, C. Sheng, X. Cao, P. Wang, P. He, H. Yang, Z. Chang, X. Yue, H. Zhou, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2021 , 32 , 2110295.
- [21] S. Pang, K. Xu, Y. Wang, X. Shen, W. Wang, Y. Su, M. Zhu, X. Xi, J. Power Sources 2017 , 365 , 68.
- [22] a) U.-H. Kim, G.-T. Park, B.-K. Son, G. W. Nam, J. Liu, L.-Y. Kuo, P. Kaghazchi, C. S. Yoon, Y.-K. Sun, Nat. Energy 2020 , 5 , 860; b) M. Yoon, Y. Dong, J. Hwang, J. Sung, H. Cha, K. Ahn, Y. Huang, S. J. Kang, J. Li, J. Cho, Nat. Energy 2021 , 6 , 362.
- [23] M.Merz, B. Ying, P. Nagel, S. Schuppler, K. Kleiner, Chem. Mat. 2021 , 33 , 9534.

Adv. Energy Mater. 2024 , 14 , 2303797

www.advenergymat.de

- [24] a) R. A. House, U. Maitra, M. A. Pérez-Osorio, J. G. Lozano, L. Jin, J. W. Somerville, L. C. Duda, A. Nag, A. Walters, K.-J. Zhou, M. R. Roberts, P. G. Bruce, Nature 2020 , 577 , 502; b) G. Assat, J.-M. Tarascon, Nat. Energy 2018 , 3 , 373.
- [25] C. Zhao, C. Li, H. Liu, Q. Qiu, F. Geng, M. Shen, W. Tong, J. Li, B. Hu, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2021 , 143 , 18652.
- [26] a) X. Sun, L. Wang, J. Ma, X. Yu, S. Zhang, X. Zhou, G. Cui, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2022 , 14 , 17674; b) L. Wang, X. Sun, J. Ma, B. Chen, C. Li, J. Li, L. Chang, X. Yu, T.-S. Chan, Z. Hu, M. Noked, G. Cui, Adv. Energy Mater. 2021 , 11 , 2100881.