## Chapter 4

## Basic Physics of the Coupling Model: Direct Experimental Evidences

K. L. Ngai and R. W. Rendell

Naval Research Laboratory, Code 6807, 4555 Overlook Avenue, SW, Washington, DC 20375-5320

The fundamental results of  the  Coupling  Model, i.e. crossover from independent  relaxation  at  short-times  to  slowed  down  cooperative relaxation at a temperature independent time t c , are represented by three equations.  They are shown to be in accord with experimental data in molecular  glass  formers,  glass-forming,  glassy  or  crystalline  ionic conductors, and concentrated colloidal suspensions. Emphasis is given in this work to the colloidal suspensions which have the advantage of the absence of  vibrational contributions and the  experimentally measured intermediate scattering function  is attributed  entirely to diffusion dynamics. Direct evidences of such crossover are demonstrated. These, together with the  many successful  applications  of  the  predictions  to several fields and  many  materials  have  led  us  to  believe  that  the Coupling Model has captured the basic physics of relaxation in materials with many-body interactions. We mention in passing that the theoretical basis of the Coupling Model is closely related to chaos in Hamiltonian dynamical systems.

The coupling model (CM) (1-3) is a general approach to dynamics of constrained or interacting systems, that has been shown to be applicable in depth to many problems of relaxation in  different materials (4-6). Interaction between relaxing units implies cooperativity between them and vice versa. Thus, the effect  of the many-body interactions on  relaxation  can  be  rephrased as  cooperativity  in  the  context  of  the  CM. Several approaches to this problem have been proposed. Recent versions of the coupling theory are

45

based  on  classical mechanics  for  systems  that  exhibit  chaos  caused  by  the  anharmonic (rK&gt;nlinear) nature of the interactions between the basic molecular units (2,3,7). For example, (i) intermolecular interaction between monomer units in polymers and small molecules in a glass-forming  van  der  Waals  liquid  modeled  by  the  Lennard-Jones  potential; (ii) the entanglement interaction between polymer chains; (Hi) Coulomb interaction between ions in glass-forming  electrolytes  including the  much studied  0.4Ca(NO3&gt;0.6KNO 3 (CKN);  and (iv) hard-sphere  like interaction between colloidal particles (8-10) are all highly anharmonic and  they  give rise  to  chaotic  dynamics  (6).  Although a  rigorous  theory  based  on first principles is still at large, there are theoretical results supporting the  basic elements  of the CM  (1-3). The common misconception that the  C M  is entirety phenomenological is not accurate. Future development  in theory may best be in the hands of experts in the dynamics of nonlinear Hamiltonian systems (7) and not necessary by us who have no formal training in this field. Whatever the future  course of development of the theory, we are quite confident that the results of the C M  are essentially correct. This confidence is gained by: (a) the results being borne out by simple models (2,3) and the fact that manifestation of the effect  of chaos is usually general, so that behavior found in simple systems carries over to more complicated ones; (b) the  many  successes  of the  C M in its  applications  to  a  variety of challenging problems  in several fields (4-6)  which represent  the  bulk of the  effort  of our  group of coworkers, and (c) the direct verification of the fundamental  physics of the  C M  by recent exr^riments.  The  latter  include  quasielastic  neutron  scattering  exr^riments  in  several polymers including polyvinylchloride (11), polyisoprene and polybutadiene (12); very high frequency  dielectric measurements for glassy and non-glassy ionic conductors  (13,14) and glass-forming molten salts (14,15). D.c. conductivity measurements of glassy and non-glassy ionic conductors up to high temperatures where the conductivity relaxation time is of the order of a picosecond or less (16-20); and molecular dynamics simulations of small molecule liquids  (21).  The  fundamental results  of  the  coupling  theory,  which  have  remained unchanged since its inception fifteen years ago (1), are restated here as follows. There exists a temperature  insensitive cross-over  time, t Ci before  which (t&lt;t c ) the  bask  units  relax independently with correlation function

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

and afterwards (t&gt;t c ) with a slowed-down  nonexponential  correlation  function.  A particularly convenient  function which is compatible with both conputer  simulations and experimental data for coupled systems is

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where ft is the coupling parameter  whose value lies within the range 0&lt;n&lt;\ and depends on the  intermolecular interaction. What distinguish the  C M from other  models that may also have the simple exponential decay at short  times and later a slowed-down decay is that in the other models the crossover time can be shifted by external variables such as  temperature. On the other hand, t c of the C M is determined by the interactions and the onset of chaos and is insensitive to changes  of external variables. For motion of monomers in polymers (11,12), small molecules in van der Waals liquids (21) and diffusion  of ions in ionic glasses (13-20), such  a  cross-over  has  been  observed  by  various  experimental  techniques  to  occur  at *e=0(lps). For motion of entangled polymer chains in melts which involves the longer length

scale of the entanglement  distance and hence weaker interaction, f c =O(10" 9 s).  In semidilute solutions  (22-29) interaction  is  further weakened  and  ? c =0(5xlO" 5 s).  Large  colloidal particles with radius=O(10 2 nm)  has a broad crossover with an onset at f c =2xl0" 3 s, as will be discussed in more detail later.

Continuity of the  two pieces of the  correlation function at t=t c leads  to  the  important relation

which links the effective  (i.e. after  cooperative  dynamical constraints  between  the relaxing molecular units have been taken into account) relaxation time, x\  to their independent  (i.e. without taking into account of the cooperative dynamical constraints)  relaxation time, x 0 . It is the  fact  that tc of the  C M  is insensitive to  external variables such as  temperature that makes equation 3 nontrivial. In other  models having deceptively similar crossover hit  the dependence of their t c on external variables being the same as x 0 , equation 3 formally still holds hit  it has  degenerated to  become  a  trivial relation. It  is useful  to  note that when considering  macroscopic  relaxation  phenomena  of  molecular  systems  occurring  at  long times (ie. when t*A &gt;&gt;1), the condition, x A » l »  holds by virtue of equation 3. As a result, the  linear exponential exp(-i/c 0 )  has  decayed  by an  insignificant amount  at t=t Cf and  the correlation function &lt; ) ) ( t )  is practically given at all times by the  stretched  exponential piece. Nevertheless,  relation (3)  still  holds  and  we  have  shown that  it  spawns  many  important consequences  that can explain many intriguing properties of different interacting systems (46,23,28). For example, the various thermorheological complexities found in the viscoelastic spectrum of amorphous polymers (4,5), and the miscellaneous properties  of ionic diffusion and conductivity in glass-forming ionic conductors (4,6) can be explained. The ability of the CM  to  address  the  fundamental  short-time  (microscopic) dynamics  and  to  solve  many practical long time (macroscopic) relaxation problems that confront  most  experimentalists all the time  distinguish  it  from  all  otter models.  Free  volume  theories (30) and configurational  entropy  theory  (31),  have  no  specific predictions on  short  time dynamics and,  when applied to  polymer viscoekstieity, they  cannot  explain the  thermorheological complexities (4,5). These deficiencies do not mean that these theories are wrong, rather that they  are  incomplete. The effects  of interaction between  the  relaxing units  have  not  been taken into account at a sufficiently fundamental level, as they have in the CM,  to capture the cooperative dynamics. However, we hasten to point out that when applying to the problem of the temperature dependence of the a-relaxation time of supercooled liquids, the  C M  is not complete either. The temperature dependence of x 0 is not  given within the  C M  in the current formulation, and it needs to be imported from elsewhere. As temperature T changes, other  thermodynamic  variables  such  as  density  and  entropy  change  and  these changes determine in turn the ^dependence of x 0 through some theory such as those mentioned. The Mode  Coupling  Theory  (MCT)  (32)  has  addressed  the  short-time  dynamics  of  density fluctuations  of  liquids,  but  so  far  has  not  demonstrated its  use  in  solving any practical problem  in  the long-time  regime  and  its  application  to  solve  problems  in  polymer viscoekstieity, ionics and etc., as the  C M  has been able to do. We understand  that often a reader is interested  in only in one problem (e.g. the glass transition) and maybe even in one aspect  of the  problem (e.g.  existence  of a  fast  relaxation at  ps  time  scale,  or  the  non-

Arrhenius T-dependence  of the  a-relaxation  time). This decision of considering a limited subset of all available facts  will make the task easier hit it risks the danger of not being able to explain or even contradicting exr^rimental facts that were excluded from consideration. These comparisons with other theories are used to bring out what the C M can do and also what it cannot do.

## The Basic Physics of the C M  (Direct Experimental Evidences)

The basic physics of the  C M  is embodied by the three equations  (l)-(3). Even from a different theoretical standpoint, people will likely agree on equation 1; that it is reasonable  to expect, at sufficiently short times, each unit relaxes independently. Equation 2 is the simplest representation  of a  non-linear-exponential process.  We do  not  believe that  it  necessarily represents exactly all  or even any one of the relaxation processes  that we have applied the CM  to.  If we choose  to  use  a different  non-exponential  function in place of equation  2 which  is  also  compatible  with  the  data  at  long times, continuity  of  this  function  with equation 1  would  again  result  in  an  equation  analogous  to  equation  3  relating  the independent  relaxation time % &gt; to some other cooperative relaxation time ?*. Equation 3 is important  for  application of  the  C M and  it  provides  the  key  to  explanations  of  many nontrivial problems (4-6, 23,28). The many applications of the C M to different  materials all originate as consequences  of these three very simple equations. The last claim may be hard to  believe,  particularly  for  someone who  has  no  previous  knowledge  of  the  many applications of the C M We invite anyone  to took into these achievements,  although  we realize that it is difficult for those who do not have expertise in the diverse subjects covered to make any  judgment. Nevertheless, we hope that more people will realize how pervasive are the applications of these apparently innocuous three equations. Although these equations haw been shown to be at least a consequence  of simple Hamiltonian systems that exhibit chaos (1-3), further  discussion of the former in this work will be confined to reexamining their validity from the experimental point of view. These three equations  are amenable  to direct  experimental  tests  that  has  the  experimental  time  window  spanning  across the crossover time t c .

Molecular Systems. The first  experimental  evidence  comes  from  quasielastic  neutron scattering experiments  in the polymers pofyvinytohloride (PVQ  by Colmenero et al (11), and  later  in other  polymers,  polyisoprene  and  pofybutadiene by Zora et  aL(12).  These authors followed  the  procedure  of  Kiebel et  al (33)  and  assumed  that the  intermediate scattering  function I(Q,t) is  the  product of  a  vibrational  contribution lv*£Q t f) and  a relaxational contribution /»i(Q,0- The former was obtained by scaling a spectrum measured at low T, where there is negligible relaxation to the temperature of interest  by the ratio of Bose-Einstein and Debye-Walter factors. IJLQJ) was then obtained by dividing I(Q,t) by the scaled IvdQj). Using this procedure, it was found by Colmenero et al and Zorn et al that Iid(Q&gt;t) exhibits a crossover from equation  1 to equation 2 at t c ~2 ps in these polymers. In r^lyvinylchloride, the % found has all the signatures of independent  motion which include its Q" 2 dependence of normal diffusion and its activation energy being close to the conformation energy barrier of  rotation of monomers in a single chain. Equation 3 holds and relates these 'normal' dependencies  of to to the 'anomalous' dependencies  of %.  Similar success has been found  from  analysis  of  molecular  dynamics  simulation  data  of  orf&amp;Herphenyl (21).

However,  the  results  have  been  questioned  because  the  procedure  is  based  on  the assumption of harmonic behavior of the vibrational modes and there is uncertainty of the results at high temperatures  if anharmonic effects  are important. However Colmenero (34) has experimental facts such as the comparison between coherent  and incoherent scattering to support the harmonic phonon hypothesis for his data. In our view, the task of removing the  vibrational contribution in order to isolate out lAQj) is never going to be easy. The uncertainty  of  the  validity  of  the  harmonic  approximation should  not  overshadow  the possibility  that  the  fast  process  seen  in  the  experimental  data  is  consistent  with  the independent  relaxation given by equation  1 for t&lt;t c , which we have also called the Ofesr process (15,35). The cooperative relaxation given by equation 2 for t&gt;t c is naturally called the Oit^rprocess. Even in the event that the vibrations are anharmonic and the Debye-Waller factor at high temperatures  can no longer be obtained by extrapolation of its values deduced from I(Q,t) measured at low temperatures  under the harmonic phonon hypothesis, all is not lost  in  showing that  the  fast  process  seen  in these  'fragfle'  glass-formers  (36)  can  be identified with the Ofea-process of the C M  and that there is a crossover at some t c . Roland et a/.(37) have demonstrated that varying the Debye-Waller factor at high temperatures  from the harmonic phonon values to simulate the effect  of anharmonieity to calculate I^dQf) and then obtaining IJiQf) by taking the ratio of 7(2,0 to IvdQf) does not drastically change the physical picture. The resulting IJiQf) is  still  consistent  with  a  crossover  from the o^r process to the Odow-process at a slightly different t c . The parameters To, n and % are different from the corresponding values determined with the harmonic phonon hypothesis, but not by very much to suggest  breakdown of the  C M  interpretation. Admittedly, without knowing exactly the anharmonieity of the vibrations there is some uncertainty in the determinations of the parameters  T Q , n and x. However, the two main points to make are: (1) failure of the harmonic phonon approximation in the procedure to isolate ItdQj) does not imply failure of the  CM to  describe  short-time  relaxation,  and  (2)  there  is  evidence  that  the  C M interpretation of the short-time dynamics is robust under any circumstances of the presence or absence of anharmonieity effects.  Kartini et al (38) have found from inelastic neutron scattering studies of C K N that the Debye-Waller factor deviates from the harmonic-phononlike behavior at 7^&gt;Tg=335 K.  CKN is definitely anharmonic and it is moot to check the  C M using the harmonic phonon approximation.

Since the criticism of the harmonic approximation comes mainly from supporters of the Mode  Coupling Theory (MCT)  (39), it is fair  to  examine the  impact of the vibrational contribution on the interpretation of neutron and light scattering data by MCT. In the earlier comparison of MCT  with incoherent neutron scattering data by Kiebel et al and coherent neutron scattering data by Bartsch et al (40), the harmonic phonon hypothesis was used in the  procedure  to  isolate out  7^(Q,r). Nevertheless, good agreements of IidQf) with  the MCT predictions were found (33,40). If the harmonic phonon hypothesis were not valid, then these good fits to  illegitimately deduced relaxation data by MCT  are  fortuitous and suggests that  the  good  fit  to  the  susceptibility minimum data  is  neither  necessary  nor sufficient  to conclude that MCT correctly captures the physics of the short-time dynamics. Most  comparisons  of experimental data  with  MCT were  made  without  removing  the vibrational contribution from the data. The fast P -process of the MCT fit was laid near the I(Q t t) data which increases with decreasing for the susceptibility %"(©) data which increases with increasing Co. Without knowing the vibrational contribution in this time or frequency

region, it is hard  to  evaluate how good the fit really is. Recent  inelastic coherent  neutron scattering  data (41) indicates the importance  of the vibrational contribution in the region of the fast process in polybutadiene.  Finally, if the comparison of the fast dynamics of the  C M with experiment  were carried out in the same manner as that involves MCT  (Le. leaving the vibrational contribution being uncertain),  then good fits to  the  data by the  C M would be already guaranteed (36).

Ionic Glass Formers CKN  is a good example  of this class  of ion-containing  materials which have the structural relaxation time or the shear relaxation time &lt;Xs&gt; being nearly  the same as the ionic conductivity relaxation time &lt;% a &gt;  at least at high temperatures where these relaxation times become of the  order  of picoseconds.  This condition ensures that one  can study  the  fast  dynamics  of  structural  relaxation  by  making  ionic conductivity  relaxation measurements. If the  C M  holds and there is no contribution to the  ax.  conductivity a(co) other than the diffusing ions, then it predicts that a(co) consists of three stages (41- 44). At high frequencies, ( Q &gt;(* c ) * &gt; where ions execute independent motions with correlation function given by equation  1, a(co) is a frequency  independent number which is denoted by a 0 .  At lower  frequencies, co &lt;(*c)*\ when  cooperative motion  of  the ions  prevails  and the correlation function is now given by equation 2, on decreasing  to, initially a((o)  has the a)* 0 dependenee  and  at  about  an  coKx*)' 1   it  levels  off  to  the  frequency-independent  d.c. conductivity 0 d c level. This prediction from the C M  has been made several years ago and reiterated in a recent paper (15)  in which good agreement of the  C M  with conductivity relaxation data of CKN  (14,15) were made. Measurement  of CKN by Cramer et al. (14,15) were made at  frequencies  above the  10 11  Hz (corresponding  to about 2 ps) through the  THz and into the  far infrared  region, where the  vibrational contribution is evident  as  absorption peaks. It was established  phenomenologically in glasses (where there is no fast relaxational process because T&lt;Tg) (45) that the vibrational contribution to 0(G)) extends down to low frequencies with an (D 2 -dependence. A similar frequency dependence of &lt; T ( CD ) is  found  in CKN  melt  at  high  temperatures.  These  facts  suggest  the  removal  of  the  vibrational contribution from  a(co) at lower  frequencies  by subtracting off the co 2 -dependent contribution  extrapolated from  the  data  at high  frequencies.  The  difference at  high temperatures  is  solely  coming  from  the  conductivity  relaxation  contribution  from  ion diffusion, Gi m ((&amp;), and as shown in Ref.15 it exhibits the crossover  at about  10 11   Hz which corresponds to r c ~l ps (see  Figure  1). The relation between % and x 0 given by equation  3 and  the  corresponding  relation  between 0 d c and o 0 have  been  verified  including  the relation between their different  temperature dependencies (42-45). Details can be  found in  Ref.15. Lunkenheimer et a/.(46) have measured a(co) of CKN  up to only 10 1045  Hz. Their data are in agreement with that of Cramer et al. (14,15).  However, without the higher frequency data, it  is  not  possible  for  Lunkenheimer et  al. to  remove  the  vibrational contribution. There is a minimum in the dielectric loss e"(co) data of Lunkenheimer et al., calculated  by  the  expression, o(&lt;o)/e 0 (0, and  has  been  fit  to  the  M C T predictions. Nearly the same minimum in e"(co) is evident from the data of Cramer et al. from Figure 2.  From  this  figure  it  is  clear  that  much  of  the  information  on  relaxation  at  higher frequencies  above 10 1045   Hz and the contribution from vibrations available in Cramer et al. is  missing  in Lunkenheimer et  al. The  latter  are  fully  aware  of this  and  they have pointed  out  the  possibility that the  minimum in e"(o&gt;) is caused  by  the  presence of  the

Figure  1.  Log-log  plot  of the  frequency  dependence  of the  contribution by  ionic motions to the a.c. conductivity in CKN.  Circles (478 K); triangles (453  K); squares (423  K);  filled  diamonds  (383  K).  The  vertical dotted  line indicates  the  crossover frequency.

Figure 2. Frequency dependence  of the  dielectric loss in C K N  at  high frequencies and  several temperatures.  The vertical dotted  line indicates  the  highest frequency reached in the work of Reference 47. Open  circles (478 K); filled triangles (453  K); open squares (423 K); fdled diamonds (383 K); inverted triangles (363 K); and stars (333  K).

vibrational contribution at  higher frequencies  and  not  related  to  the  fast P process of MCT  (32).

Fast glassy ionic conductors  (FGIC), unlike C K N  which is a poor ionic conductor, can  have conductivity relaxation time becoming short  by raising temperature but  still staying within the  glassy state. The short-time  dynamics of ions can be probed by the a.c.  conductivity method  described in the  previous  paragraph.  This is an  example of relaxation  of  an  interacting  system  which  has  little  to  do  with  the  glass  transition problem because T here is always below T g and yet the phenomenology are very similar to  the  short-time  dynamics of die glass-former  C K N  in the  melt. The best example is the  work of Cramer et al (13) on 0.44LiBr-0.56Li 2 0-B 2 O 3 .  Again, as in C K N , at high temperatures  when  ionic  diffusion  is  the  dominant  contribution  to  o ((0), there  is  a crossover of o((0) at  a frequency  of about  10 1!   Hz from a frequency independent a 0 to the ©""-dependence and at about an coKt*)" 1  it levels off to the  frequency-independent  d.c. conductivity a d c (see figure in Reference  13). Quantitative details of correspondence  of the experimental data with the  C M  can be found in paragraph (k) and Table I of Ref.6 and  will  not  be  reiterated  here.  To  dramatize  this  further,  we  can  include crystalline ionic conductors Na p -alumina and RbAgI0 4 ,  whose short-time conductivity relaxation behavior (42,48,49) is no different from the glassy ionic conductors  and CKN. There is also  a  minimum at  high frequencies  in the  £"(&lt;*&gt;) of  these  solid  state  materials  and possibly  an  MCT-fit  may even  work. It  does not  seem  likely  that  a  fluid  theory  like MCT is  applicable to  ionic  motions  in the  solid  state,  glassy  or  crystalline. In these cases,  the  minimum in the e"(o)) is certainly due to vibrational absorption, causing the rise of e"(co) at high frequencies  and hence the minimum. In view of the connection that has  been  made  between  the  conductivity relaxation of  C K N  to  M C T (47),  it seems obligatory  for  workers  in the  field  of  glass  transition  in  supercooled  liquids to  pay homage  to  these remarkably  similar  behaviors  in the  entirely  different  systems.  The common behavior found in the glass-forming CKN melt, the fast ionic conductors in the glassy or crystalline state is caused  by them all being interacting ionic systems.  If  the physics of relaxation in many-body interacting systems  has been captured  by the  C M , then  it is not  surprising that the  C M  can explain all of them  (4,6,15,17,42-45)  at  the same time.

## Crossover of Temperature Dependence of a* at High Temperatures. High

frequency  conductivity measurement  in the  GHz to  THz range that  is necessary  to characterize the  short-time dynamics at isothermal conditions is difficult  to perform. It is  much easier  to  measure the  d.c.  conductivity, Gdc, as  a  function  of temperature  to reach high temperatures where the  conductivity relaxation time, x 0 ,  is of the  order of picoseconds  or  shorter.  According  to  the  C M ,  since tc is  also  of  the  order  of  a picosecond, both and to measured under this high temperature condition pertain  to the independent  motion of the ions with correlation function given by equation  1 and x 0 can be  identified  with %^uzxp(EJRT). Since Odc=e&lt;£j%a (50),  the  temperature dependence  of to or  x 0 is  mirrored by that  of the  measured Gdc. Therefore,  the C M expects  that  by  increasing  T, the  T-dependence  of &lt; J &lt; t c will  eventually  cross  over  to reveal  the  T-dependence  of  % &gt; .  The  latter,  calculable from ado should  have  readily interpretable  physical meaning  because  % Q is  unencumbered  by  complicating  effects

including cooperativity. For example, its  apparent  activation energy  can be identified with  a  realistic  energy  barrier  of  independent relaxation,  and  the  reciprocal  of  its prefactor  is  the  attempt  angular  frequency  which  should  correspond  to  some  peak frequency  of the  infrared  or  Raman  spectrum.  These  properties  associated  with  the expected  crossover  of G d c at  high  temperatures  have  been  found  in  many  ionic conductors,  including glass-formers  such  as  CKN,  fast  glassy  ionic  conductors  and crystalline ionic conductors (17-20,42,48).

For glass-formers at temperatures below T g under isostructural conditions, % a is long compared  with t c , the ion  diffusion correlation  function  is  given  by  equation  2, Xo =[r (l /P)/p ]x*,  where psl-n,  and x* is related to the independent  relaxation time Xo^ in the glassy state by equation 3. In the glassy state, 0dc and hence x 0 have Arrhenius In­ dependence. Writing  x c and  Xo^ as  Xo^-*exp(£ a 7#7) and  x 0 ( 8 W- (g) exrX£ f l ( 8 ) //?7) respectively, equation 3 enables  the  prefactor  x&lt;» (8)  and the  activation enthalpy Ej** of independent diffusion  in the glassy state to be deduced from the experimental quantities, i.e. %J g&gt; =(t c f(%J) i ' n and E a ®=(l-n)  E a \ From a large data base of glass-forming ionic conductors,  we  (20)  found:  (1)  the  reciprocal of %J** is in rough  agreement  with x» deduced from the high temperature data and corresponds  well to the peak  angular frequency  in the  measured  vibrational spectrum;  (2) E a ® is  about  the  same  as,  or slightiy larger than (but by no more than 20%) the value of E a deduced from the high temperature data which have the x^'s shorter than t c as described above. These good correspondences  between x J ^ and E a ® with their counterparts  at high temperature are expected by the  C M  because  both sets of parameters are  for independent  diffusion  of the ion,  and the difference between them  is  caused only  by the changes of thermodynamic variables which include T and  the  density. These  changes  should not have  a  large  effect on  the  attempt  frequency and  the  activation  enthalpy  of  the independent motion of the ion.

The crossover of temperature dependence  of o&amp; at high temperatures in glassy ionic conductors is general and occurs in non-glassy ionic conductors as well. An example of the latter is shown in Figure 3 for yttria stabilized zirconia containing 9.5 mol % yttria, an oxygen ion conductor (19). The activation energy at high temperature or 0dc, E k js clearly smaller than that, £ a *, at low temperatures or 0dc. Again, when the conductivity relaxation  time is long the  frequency  dispersion is  well  described by equation  2  with n=0.57. The relation E a =(l-n)  E a * that follows from equation 3 has again been  verified (19).

Entangled Polymer Chains. This subject  is not  as  closely related  to  the  dynamics of  supercooled  liquids as  the  others  given in this  work. We  mention  it  briefly  here because  the  length  scale  of  entanglement  interaction  (i.e.  the  entanglement distance which is of the  order  of a few nanometers  and the  radius of gyration of the Gaussian chain  which  depends on  the  chain length  and  is  even  larger)  between  the  chains in polymer melts is much larger than that between small molecular units and between ions. The strength of interaction between entangled chains is correspondingly weaker and we expect  that  the  crossover  time  of  Rouse  dynamics  (corresponding  to independent motion of the chains) to slowed-down dynamics would be much longer than  1 or 2 ps found for local segmental motion in polymers and for motions in small molecular liquids

~

Figure 3. D.c. conductivity data of yttria stabilized zirconia (O) and (A). The dashed line indicates the high temperature activation energy of 0.50 eV.

and  ionic  conductors.  Experimentally, it  is found  that  Rouse  dynamics ceases  and is slowed  down after  a time of the  order  of nanoseconds.  The  length  scale  of  another many-body  interacting  system  that  we  shall  discuss  in  more detail in  the next subsection, concentrated  colloidal particles, as measured  by their radius is even larger, of  the  order  of a hundred  nanometers.  The interaction  strength  of these objects  with larger length scale is expected  to  be  weaker  and the  crossover  time t c becomes  much longer.  There  are  experimental  evidences  in semidilute  entangled  polymer solutions, associating  polymer solutions  and  interpenetrating  polymer cluster  solutions  (22-29), that the  correlation function measured  is initially a linear exponential function of time and crosses  over to a stretched  exponential at some time t c which is of the order of (is, 10 ( LI S or even larger depending on the system (23-29). The mean squared  displacement of these diffusing polymer systems  has  the  same time dependence  as  ionic  conductors (4,45)  and the  concentrated  colloidal particles to be discussed next. These isomorphic time dependencies  of diffusion  in different  interacting  systems  are  in accord  with  the CM  (45).

Concentrated Colloidal Suspensions. The Brownian motions  of colloidal  particles (8,10) and polymer-micronetwork colloidal particles (9) suspended at high concentrations  in a  liquid  constitute  another  problem of relaxations  in a  many-body interacting system that bear some resemblances  to the motions of atoms in a liquid. The particles  are  nearly monodisperse  with  a mean radius of about  10 2   nm. In contrast  to molecular systems,  the  diffusion  of the  large colloidal particles occurs  at macroscopic times longer than a (xs and there is no vibrational contribution to complicate the analysis of  the  diffusional dynamics. This advantage of colloidal  particles  has  enabled  a direct observation of the crossover in dynamics proposed by the  CM.  Previous dynamic light scattering  measurements and analyses  (8,9)  have concluded that all the  predictions of the idealized version of MCT  were verified. However, recentiy, Segre  and Pusey (SP) (10)  have  found  new  results  of  Brownian motions  of  colloidal  suspensions  in  their equilibrium  and  metastable  fluid  states  also  by  dynamic  light  scattering  (DLS).  The technique  enables them  to  obtain  the normalized  intermediate scattering function /(CO = F(Q,t)/F(Qfl) , where F(Q f t) = ^ " X ^ i X i ^ P ^ ' R ^ " 0 W» &gt; - is the position F(g,0)  is the  static  structure  factor  usually denoted  by  5 ( 0 .

Here Q is the  scattering  vector, N is the  number of particles, and r t (t) of  particle i at  time t. Information on dynamics are contained in f(Q,t).

SP  found  at  short  times  the  decay  of f[Q,t) is  linear in /, f(Q,t}=l-Ds(Q)(?t+ which  defines  the  short-time,  Q-dependent  diffusion  coefficient, D S (Q). Equivalentiy stated, f(Q,t) decays  exponentially,  i.e. f(Q t t)=cxp(^Ds(Q)t) 9 at  short  times.  As pointed  out  by  SP, the  theory  for D S (Q) is  well  understood  (10)  and  the  result  is DS(Q)=DQH(Q)/S(Q), where H(Q) originates from hydrodynamic interactions  between the particles and D 0 is the free particle diffusion  constant.

At  longer times f{Q,t) departs strongly from the  single exponential decay (10). This crossover to a dispersive time dependence  was seen in earlier works (8,9) but the  shorttime diffusion  part was not taken into account in the fit to MCT. We shall see later the short-time  diffusion  is the  independent  Brownian motion of the  C M ,  and the  observed crossover is related to t c .

Eventually,  at  sufficiently long  times,  the decay  of fiQ,t) returns  to  another exponential  form  (10), /(ftlarge t) «  exp (-j2 2 A.(G )0  · exp( c Cf&lt;r 1 {t)&gt;l6), where &lt;r 2 (t)&gt;=6D L (Q)t and AX0 is appropriately called the long-time diffusion  coefficient. The return to another exponential form was apparentiy missed in the analysis of data in previous works (8,9) which  fit  the long-time decay of/(ftf)  to the Kohlrausch function according to  MCT.

This evolution off(Q,t) from the short- to long-time regimes can be represented by a time-dependent diffusion coefficient Z)(ftf) defined by

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

At  short-times, D(Q,t) is equal to Z&gt;s (0, but starting at some  characteristic  time  it shows a decrease with time continuously over an intermediate time regime. Finally, at some long time it levels off to the terminal value of AX0. The ratio AX0 /#s (0 is about 0.23 at  volume  fraction  $=0,465 and decreases with increasing  $  to approximately  10" 3  at $=0,570. The two crossovers can be seen also through the time dependence  of -lnflftf)  as it changes  from  being proportional to t at short times to  a slower  increase  with  time  at  intermediate  times,  and later  returns  back  to being proportional to t again.

SP  discovered a simple Q-scaling property of the  measured f(Q,t) and D(Q,t) for QRZ2.5, where R is the mean radius of the particles. This scaling property is embodied by either equations,  Pn«G,t)/G 2 Ds (0 ]=-x (O or [ Z &gt;(ft O / A s ( 0 ] = X ( 0 , where %(t) and X (0 =dx(*)/d* are Q-independent  functions  of time. SP pointed out that at large Q (QR»3.5) 9 for all times,  the coherent  scattering  function j{Q,t) tends  to the self (incoherent) intermediate scattering function F^iQj) which has the form

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where Ar (t)  m f(t)  - f (0) is  the  displacement  and (Ar 2 (t)) the  mean-squared displacement of a single particle. Requiring f(Q,t)/(fDs(Q) reduce to equation 5 in the high Q-hndUfidt) can be written

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where  D f r  =lim Q -^ o D s (0 is the short-time self diffusion  coefficient and

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Thus equation 6 indicates that for QR sufficientiy  large, the coherent scattering function is determined by the diffusion  of a single particle, scaled by the ratio of collective to self short-time  diffusion  coefficients.  Identifying the observed  long-time  dependence of /(ft t) with equation 6, the long-time self diffusion coefficient r defined by

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

are related to other quantities by

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Since the ratio on the  left-hand-side  of equation 9 has no Q-dependence,  consequentiy D\IQ) and D S (Q) have the same dependence on Q as observed experimentally.

SP pointed out that this scaling has not been predicted theoretically by MCT.  In this paper we show that the  scaling property  is consistent  with  the  coupling model  (CM) results  for  diffusion  of  particles  with  many-body  interactions.  More  importantly, we show the time dependencies  of the scaled functions %(t) and % (f), as well as their rapid changes with increasing $, can be derived from an extant prediction of the  C M  on the mean squared displacement, &lt;r 2 (r)&gt;, for diffusion  of units that are interacting with each other. This extant prediction also follows from the three equations  1-3.  From now on the  term  'diffusion'  refers  to motions that can be indefinitely long-range  in a translational sense, and should be distinguished from other local relaxation processes of different nature such  as  density  and  reorientational  fluctuations.  The  coherent  as  well  as  the  incoherent intermediate  scattering functions for diffusion  and for these other relaxations are  different. This difference is evident from results of mean squared displacement obtained previously for diffusion by the C M  (45,51-54).

In applying the  C M  to diffusion  in the past, we have used the formalism of continuous time random walk (CTRW)  of Montroll  and Weiss (55).  CTRW  is a  generalization of random walks through the introduction of a probablity density function, ¥(*), for waiting times between successive steps in the walk. Taking c 0 as the  jump distance, D 0 in equation 5 is rewritten as D 0 ^c] / 6 v  According to the C M ,  since the correlation function is given by equation  1,  diffusion is  normal  for t&lt;tc. Correspondingly, in  CTRW  the  waiting time distribution is

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

&lt;

which recaptures the mean-square displacement

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

0

0

For r&gt;r c , the crossover of the correlation function to the stretched exponential in equation 3 is mirrored in CTRW by the cross-over of *F(f)  from  equation 10 for t&lt;tc to

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where again x* is related to % and n by equation 3. The entire *P(f) consisting of  equations 10 and 12 has to be renormalized in order for it to be a probability distribution function.

The mean-square displacement corresponding to equation 12 has been calculated before from the CTRW formalism analytically in limiting time regimes (51) and numerically for all times (52). The numerical result obtained for all times t&gt;t c agree with the analytical results which consists of two stages:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Defining the generalized diffusion coefficient  by D* elf (t)= (l /6 )&lt;i&lt;A/ 2 (f)&gt;/&lt;if,  we can easily verity  from  equations 4 and 6 t hat

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

which recaptures equation 6 when r becomes long.

Combining equations 11,  13 and 14, these extant general results of the  C M  indicate that dynamics of diffusion in interacting  many-body  systems  are comprised of three distinct relaxation regimes.  Similarly, the generalized diffusion coefficients D^{t) and D{Q,t) have correspondingly three different time regimes. These general behaviors of &lt;Ar 2 (i)&gt; have been observed in molecular dynamics and Monte Carlo simulations of monodisperse  entangled polymer melts ( 56-58), Monte Carlo simulations of a disordered Coulomb lattice gas model (18,59) and in ionic diffusion and electrical conductivity measurements of glassy as well as crystalline fast  ion conductors (4,6,15,42-45). For ionic conductors  when cross correlation can be neglected, the ax.  conductivity a(co) is related  to &lt;A^(f)&gt;  via the relation (59):

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

equations 11,13 and 14 correspond to the three frequency regimes of a(co)= o 0 for  (fl £(*c)"\ a(G))occo n   for ( f )* 1 «aK&lt;(r c )" 1 , and a (©)=&lt;Jdc for ( f ) \_1 »co  that have been discussed in a previous subsection.

It  is important  to point out that the cross-over  time r , the coupling parameter n and c hence &lt;A^(f)&gt; of the  C M  given by the expressions from equations 11,13 and 14 depend only  on the nature of many-body  interactions  and not on other  variables  such  as the scattering  vector Q. Thus, the g-scaling  property  of the measured f(Q,t) and D(Q,t) found by SP follows naturally as a consequence from equation 6.

Let us apply this general result  for &lt;Ar 2 {f)&gt; to concentrated  colloidal suspensions  and calculate f(Q,t) according to equation 6. SP have  found  their  experimental  intermediate scattering function exhibits also three distinct relaxation regimes. We identify the short time behavior as that given by equation 11 of the  C M  results  in the time regime I of t&lt;t c . The cross-over time tc can be estimated as the time when the initial exponential decay offiQt) or the (-^-dependence of l n / ( ( 2 , 0 ceases.  At times longer than r c ,  the  effect  expected  by the CM is &lt;A/ j2 (f)&gt; having a sublinear power law increase according to equation 13 in the time regime n, leading to a stretched exponential like decay off(Q,t) and a power law decrease, of D(Q,t) defined  by equation 4. Thus,  the coupling parameter n can be roughly estimated from these time dependencies.  Finally, in regime HI &lt;A^(f)&gt; returns to normal diffusion  according to equation 14, albeit  with  a long-time  diffusion  coefficient, Df f , which is smaller than  the short-time  counterpart Df f , and ftQt) decays  exponentially again. The onset time of these dependencies  give an estimate of f .  When the condition

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Xo &gt;r c holds, we can see from equation 3 that x* and also  x are longer than x 0 . The ratios xjx and D? ID? = D L (Q)  I D S (Q) , increase rapidly with increasing n. An increase in n can be realized by an enhancement  of the interaction between the particles through an increase of their volume fraction $.

The  results given so far have been obtained assuming a sharp crossover at However, the cross-over at t c is not expected to be sharp, due to the following reasons. Firstly, results of  simple models demonstrates that the  cross-over is broadened  over a finite  time range (2,3). Secondly, the particles are made of PMMA cores stabilized by thin layers of poly-12hydroxystearie acid and the latter may further broaden the cross-over. We have found that the essential  features  of the &lt;A^(r)&gt; data can be described using the C M with a sharp cross­ over. However, the features of the data for the derivative d&lt;A/^(r)&gt;/dr are rounded in the vicinity of the cross-over and thus deviate from the model over a short time interval A^  if a sharp crossover is used. In order to improve the fit a smoothing of the cross-over need to be introduced in the present calculation. However, this will not be attempted here.

Figure 4 shows the colloidal suspension data of SP  (10) with $ = 0.465 and the C M fit for  the normalized time-dependent  diffusion  coefficient D(Q,t)/Ds(Q), which is proportional to the derivative d[&lt;A^(r)&gt;/6D 0 ]/dr, with  n= 0.35, X o = 0.033 s , and t c = 3.8xl0" 3   s. The other quantities x* and x  are automatically determined by equations 3 and 13.  By inspection of  equation 6, we can identify &lt;A^(r)&gt;//? 2   with the  seated  function (-6Ds^? 2 )ln /(2»0 / Q 2 Ds(Q) and this quantity is shown in Figure 5 comparing the data and the  C M fit. The prefactor "is known from experiment. We have also plotted \nf(Q,t) I (fD s (Q) against time in Figure 6. These results reproduce the essential  features  of the colloidal suspension data with &lt; j &gt; = 0.465 quite well

Careful  scrutiny of fig.4 reveals that the  clashed curve deviates  from  the  data  as  the crossover  from  Regime II  to  Regime i n  is approached.  There  is  a  possibility  that  this deviation is due to the neglect of the mitigation of the dynamic constraints (or cage effects) when approaching the long term diffusion  of Regime IH from Regime H  The cage  effects which firmly take hold in the earlier part of time regime II have to be eventually dissolved somewhat before the terminal diffusion  in Regime HI can be established. The existence of constraint mitigation is reaffirmed by the fact that what is experimentally studied is the decay of the static structure factor F(Q,0) which reflects the presence of the cage in the first place. Previously, we have encountered an example of such constraints mitigation in the  diffusion of  polymer chains which are entangled together  (22). The characteristic features  of  the coupling model (CM)  relaxation function, equations  1-3  with a constant n are for timeindependent  or permanent  constraints  (cage). In many of our previous applications of the  C M  which do not involve long term diffusion  or flow,  we have found that a single value of n (determined experimentally by the relation between  x* and Xo in equation 3) could  accurately  describe  the  entire  relaxation  for t  &gt;  t c . In  these  systems,  the constraints  imposed  on  the  relaxing unit  remain  permanent  and  thus  the  coupling parameter  remains  unchanged. This  is  not  the  case  for  the  concentrated  colloidal particles studied here. The diffusive  motions of the colloidal particles become impeded and  slowed down by its neighbors which form  a cage surrounding each particle. This cage is expected to be well-defined  until timescales are reached which are on the order of  the mobility of the cage particles, which is approximately t = x*.  For t &gt; x* ,  the  cage will begin disintegrating as these particle diffuse and the constraints of the cage on the

Figure 4.  Normalized time-dependent diffusion coefficient  for colloidal suspensions with volume fraction $ = 0.465. Symbols are data replotted  from Figure 2a of Ref.10. Solid (dashed) line is C M fit with (without) constraint mitigation. The parameters used are given in the text.

Figure 5.  Scaled scattering function (^Ds^^MfiQt) I (?Ds(Q) for colloidal suspensions with volume fraction $ = 0.465. Symbols are data replotted  from Figure 3b of Ref.10. Solid (dashed) line is C M fit with (without) constraint mitigation. The parameters used are given in the text.

4.

enclosed colloidal particle  will be softened  or mitigated. For situations  in which such x*, followed by and using this in a relaxation rate formulation of constraint mitigation occurs, we would expect a constant value of n for t &lt; by decreasing  values  of n for t  &gt; x*.  This  can be  incorporated  into  the  C M introducing a time dependence for n the  C M . Note  that the C M relations,  eqs. 1-3,  are solutions  of the following  timedependent rate equation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

c

c

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

0

c

and

This has the solution  :

and

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where the subscript  'cm' is used to indicate the inclusion of constraint  mitigation. We now  parameterize n(t) to reflect constraint mitigation for t &gt; t t = x*:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where  x' is expected  to be of order  x*. The &lt; t &gt; c m of C M  with  constraint  mitigation is and eqs.20 and 21 with $ §cm described by eq.19 for t&lt;t Ct by$ cm = expHf/x*) 1 " 11 ) for t Cy &lt;t&lt;t { =  expHfi/x*) 1 " 11 )  for t &gt; t\. Without constraint  mitigation n(t) = n,=n/, f 4 -**&gt;,  and reduces to the usual C M equations 1-2.

0

From 0^(0 we can calculate &lt;Ar 2 (*)&gt;, lnf(Q 9 t)/Q 2 D s (Q) and D(Q y t)  / D S (Q) by the same procedure  discussed  before  and,  wherever  applicable, replacing 4 K 0 hy fy^it) in the equations.  To fit the calculated  quantities  to the experimental data, the parameters 4 ,  X o and nf have to be consistent  with that required by the  experimental  facts  and they  can be considered  to be predetermined.  The  two  new parameters U and n» are adjusted  to  improve the fit to D(Q t t)f DS (Q) in fig.4 for &lt;H ).465. The new fit with  constraint  mitigation and *c =3.8xl0" 3 s, Xo =0.077s, npO.35, n/=0.27 and  fc=0.078s  is shown as the solid curve in figs.4 and 5. Significant improvement  in fitting D(Q t t)  I  D S (Q) is evident from fig.4. The position of U is indicated in the figure and its location is near the crossover  from Regime II to Regime HI. At this time, &lt;J(r 2  (t)) =0.58/?. Although the results  for &lt; | &gt; = 0 . 4 6 5  with  or  without  constraint mitigation for &lt;Ar 2 (r)&gt;  and lnf(Q t t)/Q 2 D s (Q) are hardly distinguishable (figs.5  and 6), they are quite different  for &lt; ) &gt; = 0 . 5 7 as we shall discuss immediately.

Next, we include constraint mitigation and calculate the corresponding results for 0=0.57 by  using 0cm(O- A typical good fit to the D(Q,t)  I D S (Q) data  are  shown by the solid curve in Figure 7 for the  following choice of parameter values: k=8.7xl0" 3 s, Xo =0.027s, npO.85, n/=0.75 and f,=3.28s. The dotted line has the ^-dependence which approximates cw

Figure 6.  Scaled scattering function  ln[/(g,f)  / Q 2 D S (Q)] for colloidal suspensions with volume fraction § = 0.465. Symbols are data replotted  from Figure 3b of Ref.10.  Solid (dashed) line is C M  fit with (without) constraint mitigation. The parameters used are given in the text.

Figure 7.  Scaled scattering function  (-6D s *W)ln./(flO / Q?D S (Q) for colloidal suspensions with volume fraction $ = 0.57. Symbols are data from Ref.10. Solid line is C M  fit with constraint mitigation. The parameters used are given in the text.

the  time dependence  of the  data  in Regime H  The values of t Ci x 0 and n, are  within  the predetermined ranges and the results presented  are therefore  acceptable. The location of U shown  in  fig.7  is  consistent  with  the  onset  of  constraint  mitigation when  the  terminal diffusion  regime HI is drawing near. The ratio DL(Q)  /D$(Q)~10~ 3  is correctly reproduced. The calculated  results fit well also the time  dependencies of  the (Ar 2 (t)) and ln[/(Q&gt;0 / Q 2 D S (6X1  for all times except in a neighborhood of the crossover time t c . Due to  space  limitations, these plots  will not  be shown here.  This discrepancy occurs also for 0=0.465 and is attributed to the broader crossover in the colloidal particles which cannot be reproduced by the sharp crossover at specific value of t c assumed in the C M for the sake of simplicity. Except for this blemish, the calculations with the inclusion of constraint mitigation are  in  good  agreement  with  the  experimental  data  This  blemish can  be  remedied  by introducing  a range of crossover  times. The  values  of nit) for  &lt; | &gt; = 0 . 5 7 are significantly higher  than  those  for  &lt; ( &gt; = 0 . 4 6 5 as  expected  for  increased  interaction  strength  at  higher volume  fraction,  and the corresponding x* is more than two orders of magnitude larger.

Comparing the new data of Segre and Pusey (10) with the previous works (8,9) that fit data  to  MCT  predictions, several deficiencies of the  latter  become apparent. First, the ocprocess  of  MCT which  has  the  form  of  a  Kohlrausch function,  y(G0=fcexp[-(r/t e ) P ]» supposedly is responsible for the  long time decay of the  intermediate  scattering function. (8,9,60).  However,  a  Kohlrausch function  will  remain  at  long  times  as  a stretched exponential  function  with  no  return  to  a  linear  exponential  function  to  give  a  time independent  long-time diffusion  coefficient, AXG), as found by SP.  Second, the  short-time exponential relaxation seen in all works is left out of consideration in the MCT fits. There is no effort in removing the exponential relaxation process from the raw data. The MCT fit is just laid near the experimental curve and their departure from each other at shorter times is left  to the imagination of the reader. This is to be contrasted  with the  C M fit in which the short-time exponential relaxation, expt-DsG 2 ?], is not only taken into account  (equation  1) but  also plays some role of cfetermining the  subsequent time dependence of f(Q,t) in the longer time regimes, and enables DdQ) to be calculated from DsiQ). Although it must be pointed out that in the case of high volume fraction, &lt; | &gt; = 0 . 5 7 , in the  time region of 5x10" 2 &lt;t&lt;5xlQ' l $ the C M fit is not as good as the MCT fit (8) to the data due to the sharp cross­ over assumed.

The behaviors of &lt;A/ j2 (f)&gt; of concentrated colloidal particles described both experimentally and theoretically in previous sections turn out to be general and have been observed in other materials (see Tables 4.4a, 4.4b and 4.5 in Ref.4). These include ions in glassy  and  nonglassy  ionic  conductors (4,13-18,59),  entangled polymer  chains  in monodisperse  melts  (4,53-58)  and  in semidilute solutions  (28).  The materials  and  the species that diffuse  in them are totally different from the  colloidal hard spheres.  From the CM point of view, the general behavior is no surprise because these different  systems share the  common characteristic that many-body interactions between  the  diffusing  species  are important in determining the dynamics of the diffusion.  The many-body interactions in these systems,  modeled by the  Lennard-Jones  potential for  polymers, Coulomb interaction for ionic conductors and hard sphere interactions for colloidal particles, are all nonlinear. Hence, the  general  mechanism  in  the  C M of  slowing  down  the  relaxation  rate  by  nonlinear Hamiltonian dynamics (chaos) should be operative in all such systems, leading to the general behaviors of &lt;A^(f)&gt; as found.

## Conclusion

We have reasons (1-3) to believe that the basic physics of relaxation in any system with many-body  interactions  is related  to  chaos  of nonintegrable  Hamiltonian systems (7). Relaxation processes in many complex materials involves many-body interactions, however, most theoretical treatments of them, including the formally exact memory equation for  the autocorrelation function of density  fluctuation,  have not gone back to the bask physics of chaos. Simple models of relaxation based on chaos have led us since 1979 (1-3) to the same results, which are represented  by the three equations,  1-3. These three coupled equations may look deceptively simple, but they have many successful and nontrivial applications to various  fields  (4-6,15-17,19,20-23,28,42-45). Even if we pretend that these three equations had no theoretical basis, their remarkable ability to explain many experimental facts should be worth noticing. These applications in the macroscopic time regime, though important, could  still be considered as indirect evidences of these three equations. In this work we focus on the direct experimental evidences for  the validity of the three equations, drawn from more fundamental  observations made in molecular glass-formers,  ionic conductors, and colloidal hard spheres.  Special attention is paid to concentrated  colloidal  suspensions because they have no contribution from vibrations, making the crossover of the  diffusional contribution clear. The basic physics of the crossover from independent motion, equation 1, to cooperative motion, equation 2, at a characteristic time t c and the quantitative relation between the two corresponding relaxation times, equation 3, are shown to be general for relaxations in materials with many-body interactions between the relaxing units.

## Acknowledgement

This work is supported by ONR. We thank PhiL Segre for sending us the published data of concentrated colloidal suspensions.

## Literature Cited

- (1) Ngai K.L., Comment Solid State Phys. 1979, 9 127; Ngai K.L. and White C.T., Phys.Rev. B 1 9 7 9 20 2475.
- (2) Ngai K.L. and Tsang K.Y., Macromol. Chem. Macromolec.Symp.1995,90,95; K.L.; Peng S.L.;Tsang K.Y.Physica A 1993,  191,523;  Ngai K.L. and Rendell R.W., J. Non-Cryst.Solids 1991,131-133, 233; Tsang K.Y.;Ngai K.L.,Phys.Rev.E, 1996,54, R3067; Rendell R.W. Phys.Rev.E 1993,48,R17; Rendell R.W. J.Appl.Phys. 1994,75,7626. Tsang K.Y.;Ngai K.L.Phys.Rev.E, s u b mitted 1997.
- (3) We like to include the recent work, Tsironis G. P. and. Aubry S, 1996, Phys. Rev. Lett.  77, 5225, which  shows a similar crossover  from  exponential relaxation at short times to a slower relaxation at longer times. See also Flach S. and Mutschke G. Phys. Rev. E 1994 49, 5018.
- (4) Ngai K.L., in "Relaxational Processes in Disordered Systems", Richert R. and Blumen A. Eds.,(Springer-Verlag,  Berlin, 1993) p.89.
- (5) For applications to polymer viscoelasticity, see Ngai K.L. and Plazek D.J., Rubber Chem. Tech. Rubber Review 1995,68, 376.
- (6) Ngai, K.L. J.Non-Cryst.Solids 1996, 203, 232.

Ngai

- (7) MacKay R.S.  and Meiss J.D., "Hamiltonian Dynamical Systems" (Adam Hilger, Bristol, 1987).
- (8) van Megan, W.; Underwood, S.M. Phys.Rev.E, 1994, 49, 4206.
- (9) Bartsch, E.; Antonietti, M.; Schupp, W.; Sillescu, H. J. Chem. Phys. 1992, 97, 3950.
- (10) Segre, P.N.; Pusey, P.N. Phys.Rev.Letters, 1996, 77, 771.
- (11) Colmenero J., Arbe A. and Alegria A., Phys.Rev.Lett. 1993,71,2603; J. NonCryst.Solids 1994,  172-174,126;  Ngai K.L., Colmenero J., Arbe A., and Alegria A., Macromolecules 1992,25, 6727.
- (12)  Zorn  R., Arbe A., Colmenero J., Frick B., Richter D., and Buchenau U., Phys. Rev.  E 1995, 52, 781.
- (13) Cramer C., Funke K. and Saatkamp T., Philos. Mag. B 1995, 71, 701.
- (14) Cramer C., Funke K., Buscher M., and Happe A., Philos. Mag. B 1995 71, 713.
- (15) Ngai K.L., Cramer C., Saatkamp T., and Funke K., Non-Equilibrium Phenomena in Supercooled Fluids, Glasses and Amorphous Materials, World Scientific, Singapore, M. Giorano,D. Leporini, M. P. Tosi, Eds.  1996, pp.3-24.
- (16) J. Kincs and  S.W.  Martin, Phys.Rev.Lett. 1995,76,70.
- (17) K.L. Ngai and A.K. Rizos, Phys.Rev.Lett. 1996, 76, 1296.
- (18) P. Maass, M. Meyer, A. Bunde and W. Dieterich, Phys.Rev.Lett. 1996,77, 1528.
- (19) K.L. Ngai, 1996 to be submitted for publication.
- (20) Ngai, K.L.; Greaves, G.N.; Moynihan, C.T. 1996, under preparation.
- (21) Lewis L.J. and Wahnström G., Phys. Rev.  E 1994, 50,  3865; Roland C.M., Ngai K.L. and Lewis L.J., J. Chem. Phys. 1995, 103,  4632.
- (22) Ngai, K.L.; Rendell, Plazek, D.J., 1997 J.Phys.(Paris) Colloq.C, in press.
- (23) Ngai, K.L. Advan.Colloid Interf.Sci.1996, 64, pp.1-43.
- (24) Adam, M.; Delasanti, M.; Munch, J.P.; Durand, D. Phys.Rev.Lett.1998, 61,
- (25) Nyström, B.; Walderhaug, H.; Hansen, F.N. J.Phys.Chem. 1993, 97, 7743.
- (26) Ren,  S.Z.;  Shi,  W.F.; Zhang, W.B.; Sorensen, Phys.Rev.A, 1992,45,  2416.
- (27) Phillies, G.D.J.; Richardson, C.; Quinlan, C.A.; Ren,  S.Z. Macromolecules 1993,26,6849.
- (28) Ngai, K.L.; Phillies, G.D.J. J.Chem.Phys. 1996, 105 8385.
- (29) Ngai, K.L. in NATO ASI Series C, 1992, 369, pp.221-232.
- (30) For basic free volume theory, see Ferry, D.J. Viscoelastic Properties of  Polymers, J.Wiley, New  York, N.Y. 1980.
- (31) Adam, G.; Gibbs, J.H. J.Chem.Phys.1965,43,139.
- (32) Götze, W.; Söjgren, L. Rep.Prog.Phys. 1992, 55, 241.
- (33) Kiebel, M.; Bartsch, E.; Debus, O.; Fujara,F.; Petty, W.; Sillescu, H. Phys.Rev.B, 1992, 45,10310.
- (34) Colmenero, J. private communication 1996, and Phys.Rev.Lett. January 1997.
- (35) Roland, C.M.; Ngai, K.L. J.Chem.Phys. 1995, 103 1152; 1996, 104 8171.
- (36) Ngai, K.L.; Greaves, G.N. in Diffusion in Amorphous Materials, Jain H.; Gupta, D. Eds.;  TMS, Warrendale, PA; pp. 17-41.
- (37) Roland, C.M.; Ngai, K.L.; J.Chem.Phys. 1996, 104 2967; Phys.Rev.E, 1996,54, 6969
- (38) Kartini, E. et al. 1996, 54, 6292.
- (39) Wuttke, J.; Petty, W.; Coddens, G.; Fujara, F. Phys.Rev.E, 1995,52, 4026.

706.

- (40) Bartsch, E.; Fujara, F.; Legrand, J.F.; Petry, W.; Sillescu, H.; Wuttke, J. Phys.Rev.E 1995, 52, 738.
- (41) Buchenau, U. et al. Phys.Rev.Letters, 1996, 77, 4035.
- (42) K.L. Ngai and  U. Strom, Phys.Rev.B 1988, 38, 10350.
- (43) K.L. Ngai, J.Phys.(Paris) Colloq.  C2 1992, 2, 61.
- (44) K.L. Ngai and  O. Kanert, Solid State Ionics 1992, 53-55, 936.
- (45) See Tables 4.4a  and 4.4b  in Reference 4,  and Table 3 in Rajagopal, A.K.; Ngai, K.L.; Teitler, S. J.Non-Cryst.Solids 1991,131-133, 282.
- (46)  U. Strom, J.R. Hendrickson, R.J. Wagner and  P.C. Taylor, Solid State Commun.15 (1974) 1871;  U. Strom and P.C. Taylor, Phys.Rev. B 1977, 16, 5512.
- (47) Lunkenheimer, P. et  al. Phys.Rev.Letters 1996, 77
- (48) K. Funke, Prog.Solid St.Chem. 1993, 22, 111.
- (49) C. León, L. Lucia and J. Santamaria, Phys.Rev.B, in press.
- (50) C.A. Angell, Chem.Rev.1990, 90, 523;  C.A. Angell, Annu.Rev.Phys.Chem. 1992,  172,  1 .
- (51) Ngai, K.L.; Liu, F.S., Phys.Rev.B, 1980, 24, 1049.
- (52) Rendell, R.W.; Ngai, K.L. J.Non-Cryst.Solids 1991,  131-133,  667.
- (53) Ngai K.L.; Skolnick, J. Macromolecules 1991, 24,1561.
- (54) Ngai K.L. Macromolecules 1992, 25,  2184.
- (55) Montroll, E.W.; Weiss, G.H., J.Math.Phys. 1965, 6, 167.
- (56) Skolnick J., Kolinski A.,Adv.  Chem. Phys. 1990, 78,223
- (57) Pakula, T.and Geyler S., Macromolecules 1987, 20, 2909; 1988, 21,  1665.
- (58) Kremer K.and Grest G., J.Chem.Phys. 1990, 92,  5057.
- (59) Maass, P.; Petersen, J.; Bunde, A.; Dieterich, W.; Roman, H.E. Phys.Rev.Lett. 1991, 66, 52.
- (60) Fuchs, M.; Hofacker, I.; Latz, A. Phys.Rev.A.1992, 45,

898.