and Corsin Battaglia www.acsaem.org

## Cite This: ACS Appl. Energy Mater. 2019, 2, 6924 -6930

## Electrochemical Oxidative Stability of Hydroborate-Based SolidState Electrolytes

Ryo Asakura, † , ‡ Le ́ o Duche ̂ ne, † , ‡ Ruben-Simon Ku ̈ hnel, † Arndt Remhof, * , † Hans Hagemann, ‡ †

† Materials for Energy Conversion, Empa, Swiss Federal Laboratories for Materials Science and Technology, 8600 Du ̈ bendorf, Switzerland

‡ De ́ partement de Chimie-Physique, Universite ́ de Gene ̀ ve, 1211 Gene ̀ ve 4, Switzerland

## * S Supporting Information

ABSTRACT: We report a robust methodology based on linear sweep voltammetry to determine experimentally the electrochemical oxidative stability of hydroborate-based solidstate electrolytes for all-solid-state batteries. To accelerate kinetics and improve the sensitivity to decomposition, we explore di /uniFB00 erent solid-state electrolyte/carbon composites and employ a low scan rate of 10 μ V s -1 . Using LiBH4 as a model system, we show that proper selection of the conductive carbon and its ratio in the composite are important for an accurate determination of the intrinsic oxidative stability. This method is robust with respect to the

choice of the current collector material and the ionic conductivity of the solid-state electrolyte. The measured oxidative stability of LiBH4 of 2.0 V vs Li + /Li is in good agreement with the value predicted by /uniFB01 rst-principles calculations. The irreversible electrochemical decomposition of LiBH4 outside the oxidative stability limit is independently con /uniFB01 rmed by galvanostatic cycling. We apply this method to reassess the electrochemical oxidative stability of selected, highly conductive hydroboratebased solid-state electrolytes, including Li2(CB9H10)(CB11H12), Na3(BH4)(B12H12), Na4(B12H12)(B10H10), and Na4(CB11H12)2(B12H12), and emphasize the necessity of selecting cathode materials for all-solid-state batteries based on the accurate understanding of the oxidative stability of the solid-state electrolytes.

KEYWORDS:

all-solid-state battery, solid-state electrolyte, hydroborate, electrochemical stability, linear sweep voltammetry

## ■ INTRODUCTION

All-solid-state batteries, which employ solid-state electrolytes (SSEs) instead of liquid electrolytes, have recently drawn wide attention due to their potential for higher energy and power density and for a wider operating temperature range. These advantages arise from their high ion transference number, nonvolatility, and improved thermal stability of SSEs. 1 Liquidlike ionic conductivity has been achieved in several material classes including sul /uniFB01 des, oxides, and hydroborates. 2,3 Hydroborates are particularly interesting because they combine (i) low gravimetric density, (ii) high thermal stability due to the strong covalency of their anions, and (iii) high deformability guaranteeing a robust ionic contact to the electrode materials. 4,5 Superionic conduction ( σ ion &gt; 10 -3 S cm -1 ) in hydroborates was /uniFB01 rst discovered in the high-temperature (HT) phase of LiBH4 above 110 ° C and applied in prototype all-solid-state batteries. 6,7 Lithium and sodium hydrocloso -borates ([B n H n ] 2 -) and hydrocloso -monocarbaborates ([CB n -1H n ] -) show even higher thermal stability and ionic conductivity in their respective HT phases. 8 -11 The HT phase of hydroborates can be stabilized at lower temperatures by ball milling, 12,13 partial dehydrogenation, 14 nano con /uniFB01 nement, 15,16

or anion/cation substitution, 17 -27 which leads to the increase in the room-temperature ionic conductivity. For instance, Na4(B12H12)(B10H10) (also named Na2(B12H12)0.5(B10H10)0.5 in the literature), an equimolar mixture of Na2B12H12 and Na2B10H10, exhibits a room-temperature ionic conductivity of 10 -3 S cm -1 by stabilizing the HT phase of Na 2 B10 H10. 22 This enabled a stable 3 V all-solid-state sodium battery with more than 85% capacity retention after 250 cycles at C/5. 28

Integrating SSEs into all-solid-state battery cells with high energy and power density, and long cycle life, 29 requires not only high ionic conductivity but also a wide electrochemical stability window. SSEs with high oxidative stability facilitate the use of high-voltage cathodes that increase the battery ' s energy density. However, the experimental determination of the electrochemical stability window of SSEs is more challenging than that of liquid electrolytes due to the slow decomposition kinetics. 30,31 One approach to circumvent this problem is to establish an interpenetrating network of ionic

Received:

July 30, 2019

Accepted:

August 23, 2019

Published:

August 23, 2019

DOI: 10.1021/acsaem.9b01487 ACS Appl. Energy Mater. 2019, 2, 6924 - 6930

and electronic conduction pathways by forming a composite consisting of a SSE material and conductive carbon additives. 32 This has proven to be a good solution for the soft sul /uniFB01 de-based SSEs, such as Li10GeP2S12, which can be compacted by simple cold pressing. 32,33 For hard oxide-based SSEs, such as Li 7La3Zr2O12, sintering at high temperatures is required to establish ionic contact between individual grains, making it more di /uniFB03 cult to establish the electronic network. 32

The thermodynamic electrochemical stability window of various inorganic SSEs, including hydroborates, was predicted by /uniFB01 rst-principles calculations using the grand-potential phase diagram. 29,32,34 -39 The experimental proof of the electrochemical stability window of Li10GeP2S12 agrees well with /uniFB01 rstprinciples computation. 32 On the other hand, previous experimental estimations of the electrochemical oxidative stability of hydroborates are inconsistent with computationally predicted values, claiming the oxidative stability beyond 5 V vs Li + /Li. 14 -16,20,23,27,40 Some of us measured anodic currents by linear sweep voltammetry on the nanoampere scale and extracted an oxidative stability of ∼ 3 V vs Na + /Na for Na4(B12H12)(B10H10). 22 However, so far, none of the previous studies provide a comprehensive assessment of the oxidative stability of hydroborate-based SSEs measured under relevant and uni /uniFB01 ed conditions.

Here we report a robust methodology to experimentally determine the electrochemical oxidative stability of the yet under-explored hydroborate-based SSEs by linear sweep voltammetry (LSV). Using LiBH4 as a model material, we show in a systematic study that low scan rates and proper selection of the type and amount of conductive carbon additives are critical for an accurate determination of the intrinsic oxidative stability. The re-examined oxidative stability of LiBH4 is in good agreement with the computationally predicted value. We also identify factors resulting in overestimation of the electrochemical stability in previous studies. We apply our methodology to reassess the electrochemical oxidative stability of recently discovered, highly conductive hydroborate-based SSEs including Li2(CB9H10)(CB11H12), Na3(BH4)(B12H12), Na4(B12H12)(B10H10), and Na4(CB11H12)2(B12H12). 19,22 -24

## ■ EXPERIMENTAL SECTION

Commercial LiBH4 (95%, Sigma-Aldrich) was ground for 15 min with a mortar and pestle and used without further puri /uniFB01 cation. Na3(BH4)(B12H12) and Na4(CB11H12)2(B12H12) were prepared by ball milling and heat treatment as described elsewhere. 23,24 Na4(B12H12)(B10H10) was prepared by a solution-based method. 41 An equimolar mixture of as-purchased Na2B12H12 (Katchem) and predried Na2B10H10 (Katchem) at 160 ° C for 6 h under vacuum (10 -3 mbar) was dissolved into anhydrous isopropanol (99.9%, VWR). Excess solvent was removed in a rotary evaporator. The obtained powder was further dried at 100 ° C for 1 h under vacuum and heat-treated at 180 ° C for 4 h under vacuum. Li2(CB9H10)(CB11H12) was prepared in a similar way to Na4(B12H12)(B10H10) with changes in drying conditions. LiCB9H10 (Katchem) and LiCB11H12 (Katchem) were predried at 200 and 160 ° C for 12 h under vacuum, respectively. The equimolar mixture of these two compounds after dissolution in anhydrous isopropanol and rotary evaporation was further dried at 150 ° C for 1 h under vacuum and heat-treated at 200 ° C for 4 h under vacuum. Five types of conductive carbon with di /uniFB00 erent BET speci /uniFB01 c surface areas S BET and densities ρ , i.e., Ketjenblack EC-600JD ( S BET = 1362 m 2 g -1 , ρ bulk = 0.11 g cm -3 ), Super P ( S BET = 58 m 2 g -1 , ρ bulk = 0.16 g cm -3 , Imerys Graphite &amp; Carbon), Super C65 ( S BET = 60 m 2 g -1 , ρ bulk = 0.16 g cm -3 , Imerys Graphite &amp; Carbon), TIMREX KS6 ( S BET = 16 m 2 g -1 , ρ bulk = 0.07 g cm -3 , Imerys Graphite &amp; Carbon), and mesocarbon microbeads (MCMB, S BET = 1.2 m 2 g -1 , ρ tap = 1.3 g cm -3 , MTI), were dried at 100 -150 ° C for 24 h under vacuum. The S BET of dried conductive carbon was measured by /uniFB01 ve-point nitrogen adsorption using a surface area and porosity analyzer (ASAP 2020, Micromeritics). All chemicals were stored and handled in an argon/uniFB01 lled glovebox (O2 and H2O &lt;0.1 ppm).

LiBH4/carbon composites were prepared by mixing LiBH4 and conductive carbon in a weight ratio of 95:5 (Ketjenblack), 90:10 (Super P), 75:25 (Super P, C65, KS6, and MCMB), and 50:50 (Super P) with mortar and pestle for 15 min. The 5 wt % was chosen for Ketjenblack due to its hollow structure with a void fraction of 0.8 to ensure similar electronic conductivity to other types of conductive carbon. To avoid an electrical short circuit during measurements, a powder stack composed of the /uniFB01 rst layer of 2 or 5 mg of the LiBH 4/ carbon composite and the second layer of 80 mg of LiBH4 was uniaxially pressed under 450 MPa to form a pellet with 12 mm diameter and 1.0 -1.3 mm thickness (see Figure 1a). The volume

Figure 1. (a) Schematic of the solid-state cell setup for electrochemical oxidative stability tests. (b) Example of E onset estimation from two linear regression lines ( R 2 &gt; 0.99) of the non-faradaic background current and faradaic anodic current. (c) Linear sweep voltammograms of Li/LiBH4/LiBH4-C/Pt cells with 25 wt % Super P in the 5 mg LiBH4/carbon composite at scan rates of 10, 100, and 500 μ V s -1 and of a Li/LiBH4/Pt cell at a scan rate of 10 μ V s -1 from 1.5 to 4.0 V vs Li + /Li at 60 ° C. The inset shows the magni /uniFB01 ed linear sweep voltammograms of a Li/LiBH4/Pt cell at scan rates of 10 and 100 μ V s -1 between 2.7 and 4.0 V vs Li + /Li.

fraction of carbon was calculated from the density and weight of LiBH4 and the respective conductive carbon in the composite, while the total surface area of carbon was obtained from the speci /uniFB01 c surface area and weight of the respective conductive carbon. As shown in Figure 1a, a Pt disk (99.997%, 0.25 mm in thickness, Alfa Aesar) and an Al foil (&gt;99.3%, 15 μ m in thickness, MTI) with 12 mm diameter were attached to the carbon composite side of the pellet, and a surface-scratched Li metal foil (99.9%, 0.5 mm in thickness, China Energy Lithium) with a diameter of 10 mm was attached to the other side. A glassy carbon disk (0.2 mm in thickness, Goodfellow) was employed as an alternative to the Pt disk in selected experiments. All components were /uniFB01 xed between two stainless-steel rods and assembled in a Swagelok-type cell in a two-electrode con /uniFB01 guration. To assess the oxidative stability of selected, highly conductive hydroborate-based SSEs, SSE/Super C65 composites were mixed for 15 min in a weight ratio of 75:25. Super C65 was chosen as it has similar material speci /uniFB01 cations to Super P at a lower impurity level. For

Na-ion conductors, a Li metal foil was replaced with a surfacescratched Na metal foil which was rolled out from a Na metal cube (99.9%, Sigma-Aldrich).

All electrochemical measurements were performed using a multichannel potentiostat (VMP3, BioLogic). Electrochemical oxidative stability was determined by LSV at a scan rate of 10 or 100 μ V s -1 . We choose to de /uniFB01 ne the oxidative stability limit as the onset potential E onset , at which the electrochemical oxidation reactions start. As shown in Figure 1b, E onset was determined from the intersection of two linear regression lines ( R 2 &gt; 0.99) of (i) the nonfaradaic background current associated with the double-layer capacitance and (ii) the faradaic anodic (= oxidative) current to extract the onset of the anodic current. In LSV scans of LiBH 4 and Na3(BH4)(B12H12), the voltage was /uniFB01 rst swept down from the open circuit voltage to 1.5 V vs Li + /Li or vs Na + /Na, respectively, and subsequently swept up to obtain a su /uniFB03 cient number of data points of the background current for the linear regression. For Na4(B12H12)(B10 H10) and Na4(CB11H12)2(B12H12), the voltage was directly swept upward from the open circuit voltage because of the su /uniFB03 cient number of data points before the onset of anodic currents. The linear /uniFB01 t method was chosen as it enables a more accurate determination of E onset compared to other arbitrary criteria such as a speci /uniFB01 ed cuto /uniFB00 current density. 42 This method has also been suggested to quantify the electrochemical stability limits of liquid electrolytes and ionic liquids, where errors of less than ± 0.05 V were reported. 43 Galvanostatic cycling of LiBH 4 was conducted between 1.5 and 4.0 V vs Li + /Li at a constant current density of 30 μ A cm -2 . The speci /uniFB01 c capacity was obtained based on the weight of LiBH4 in the LiBH4/ carbon composite.

## ■ RESULTS AND DISCUSSION

LiBH4 has been investigated as a model superionic conductor 15,18,27,44 -48 and was reported to exhibit high electrochemical stability over 5 V vs Li + /Li, 40 which is not consistent with the value of ∼ 2.0 V vs Li + /Li predicted by /uniFB01 rstprinciples calculation. 34,35 To determine experimental conditions allowing an accurate assessment of the electrochemical oxidative stability of LiBH4, its sensitivity on the following parameters was investigated: the type and amount of carbon in the composite, the voltage scan rate, and the current collector material.

Figure 1c shows the linear sweep voltammograms of Li/ LiBH4/LiBH4-C/Pt cells (Super P, 25 wt %) at scan rates of 10, 100, and 500 μ V s -1 in comparison to a Li/LiBH4/Pt cell without carbon addition at a scan rate of 10 μ V s -1 . All LSVs were recorded at 60 ° C to prevent Li dendrite formation from the Li counter electrode. The onset potentials E onset for LiBH4 oxidation extracted from the pellets with and without carbon addition at 10 μ V s -1 are 2.04 and 3.10 V vs Li + /Li, respectively. The value of E onset with carbon addition is in good agreement with the computationally predicted value from grand-potential phase diagrams ( ∼ 2.0 V vs Li + /Li), 34,35 despite the low ionic conductivity of LiBH 4 at 60 ° C on the order of 10 -7 S cm -1 . We attribute the overestimation of E onset without carbon addition even at a low scan rate of 10 μ V s -1 to insu /uniFB03 cient electronic contact area between SSE and current collector, resulting in slow kinetics of the electrochemical oxidative decomposition. 32 The use of a SSE/conductive carbon composite increases the electronic contact area between SSE and conductive carbon and thereby accelerates the decomposition reactions.

To examine the e /uniFB00 ect of the current collector and potential catalytic decomposition of LiBH4 in contact with Pt, the Pt disk was replaced with a glassy carbon disk. LSV with carbon addition was performed as before at a scan rate of 10 μ V s -1 at 60 ° C. As shown in Figure S1, the experiments with glassy carbon and Pt current collectors yield very similar values for E onset . The negligible di /uniFB00 erence in E onset indicates that the catalytic activity of Pt is negligible for LiBH 4 oxidation in this con /uniFB01 guration and that the electrochemical oxidative decomposition of LiBH4 in the LiBH4/carbon composite dominates the contributions from the interface between LiBH4 and the current collector. Therefore, as long as the current collector serves as inert, nonporous, semiblocking electrode, the determination of E onset is robust against the choice of the current collector material.

Figure 1c also shows the in /uniFB02 uence of the scan rate on E onset in a Li/LiBH4/LiBH4-C/Pt cell (see Figure S2 for the detailed linear sweep voltammograms measured at di /uniFB00 erent scan rates). The faster scans at 100 and 500 μ V s -1 result in a larger contribution from the capacitive background current because capacitive currents are excepted to be linearly proportional to the scan rate after a su /uniFB03 ciently long sweeping time. 43 The higher background current shifts E onset for 100 and 500 μ V s -1 upward by more than 100 and 500 mV, respectively, compared to 10 μ V s -1 . Note that the selected scan rates (10, 100, and 500 μ V s -1 ) are much lower than those employed in previous LSV tests of hydroborate-based SSEs (e.g., 1 or 5 mV s -1 ). 20,40,47 As shown in Figure S2, higher scan rates signi /uniFB01 cantly increase the contribution of capacitive background currents and consequently lead to an overestimation of E onset . Below scan rates of 20 μ V s -1 , capacitive background currents have a minor e /uniFB00 ect on E onset determination. Therefore, we consider a scan rate of 10 μ V s -1 to be a suitable compromise between suppression of capacitive currents and time constraints.

To investigate the role of the type of conductive carbon in the determination of the oxidative stability, LiBH4/carbon composites were investigated under the same conditions with /uniFB01 ve di /uniFB00 erent types of conductive carbon (Ketjenblack, Super P, Super C65, KS6, and MCMB). Figure 2a shows the representative linear sweep voltammograms at 10 and 100 μ V s -1 , using conductive carbon with higher (Ketjenblack, 5 wt %) or lower (MCMB, 25 wt %) speci /uniFB01 c surface area and density than Super P. The use of low-surface-area MCMB results in an overestimation of E onset (2.61 V vs Li + /Li), even at the lower scan rate. Higher scan rates result in an even larger

Figure 2. (a) Linear sweep voltammograms of Li/LiBH4/LiBH4-C/Pt cells with 5 wt % Ketjenblack (green) and 25 wt % MCMB (red) and in the 5 mg LiBH4/carbon composite at scan rates of 10 and 100 μ V s -1 from 1.5 to 4.0 V vs Li + /Li at 60 ° C. (b) E onset at a scan rate of 10 μ V s -1 at 60 ° C plotted against the volume fraction of the conductive carbon in the LiBH4/carbon composite. The circle symbol stands for a 5 mg composite, while the diamond symbol stands for a 2 mg composite. The volume fraction was calculated from the density and weight of LiBH4 and the respective conductive carbon in the composite.

overestimation. As was the case without carbon addition, we attribute this to an insu /uniFB03 ciently large electronic contact area. The value of E onset obtained with high-surface-area Ketjenblack at 10 μ V s -1 (2.08 V vs Li + /Li) lies close to the value of E onset observed with Super P (2.04 V vs Li + /Li), while the shift of E onset from 10 to 100 μ V s -1 (&gt;200 mV) is higher than with Super P (&gt;100 mV) mainly due to the larger capacitive current resulting from the larger speci /uniFB01 c surface area.

The e /uniFB00 ects of the amount of conductive carbon in terms of volume fraction and total surface area (Super P in this case) are summarized in Figure 2b and Figure S4. As shown in Figure 2b, the 2 and 5 mg composites with the same carbon volume fraction of 0.58 (corresponding to 25 wt %) exhibited almost the same E onset . On the other hand, the 2 mg, 25 wt % and 5 mg, 10 wt % composites with the same total carbon surface area of 292 cm 2 (corresponding to 0.5 mg of Super P) exhibit more than 100 mV di /uniFB00 erence in E onset . This suggests that the carbon volume fraction in the composite is a more decisive parameter for the accuracy of E onset than the total surface area (see Figure S4 for a plot of E onset vs total surface area). The shift to higher E onset for lower carbon volume fractions than 0.58 can be explained by insu /uniFB03 cient electronic contact area, slowing the kinetics of electrochemical decomposition. On the other hand, the shift to higher E onset for higher carbon volume fractions than 0.58 might be due to decreased decomposition currents resulting from the lower fraction of LiBH4 in the composite. Overall, 25 wt % Super P, 25 wt % Super C65, or 5 wt % Ketjenblack provided low E onset below 2.1 V vs Li + /Li among other results. However, the deviation of E onset stays within 150 mV for all types of investigated carbons except for MCMB. This can be attributed to both the lower volume fraction ( ∼ 0.15) and total surface area ( ∼ 15 cm 2 ) of MCMB compared to the other types of carbon. A robust determination of E onset requires (i) a conductive carbon volume fraction between 0.2 and 0.8 and (ii) a carbon surface area of &gt;200 cm 2 in a 5 mg LiBH4/carbon composite.

To assess the impact of the ionic conductivity of the SSE, LSV using optimized conditions (25 wt % Super P, 10 μ V s -1 ) was conducted for the HT phase of LiBH4 (&gt;10 -3 S cm -1 ) at 120 ° C, as shown in Figure 3a. The enhanced ionic conductivity in the HT phase increases the anodic current substantially and enables a clearer distinction between background and SSE decomposition currents. The measured

Figure 3. (a) Cyclic voltammogram at a scan rate of 10 μ V s -1 and (b) initial galvanostatic charge -discharge curves at a current density of 30 μ A cm -2 for Li/LiBH4/LiBH4-C/Pt cells with 25 wt % Super P in the LiBH4/carbon composite cycled between 1.5 and 4.0 V vs Li + / Li at 120 ° C. The inset shows the galvanostatic charge -discharge curves after the /uniFB01 rst charge. The speci /uniFB01 c capacity was obtained based on the weight of LiBH4 in the composite (= 3.75 mg).

E onset at 120 ° C (1.96 V vs Li + /Li) turns out to be only slightly lower than the E onset at 60 ° C (2.04 V vs Li + /Li), which we attribute to the thermodynamically facilitated decomposition reactions at higher temperatures and the accelerated kinetics in the HT phase. The value of E onset at 120 ° C is also in good agreement with the computational prediction, con /uniFB01 rming the robustness of this method with respect to variations in ionic conductivity over several orders of magnitude (&gt;10 -3 -10 -7 S cm -1 in the case of the high- and low-temperature phase of LiBH4).

Sweeping the voltage from 1.5 to 4.0 V vs Li + /Li, two distinct anodic peaks appear (see Figure 3a) that are absent when sweeping back down from 4.0 to 1.5 V vs Li + /Li (also shown in Figure 3a), suggesting multistep, irreversible electrochemical decomposition reactions of LiBH4. Galvanostatic measurements shown in Figure 3b con /uniFB01 rm the irreversible nature of the oxidative decomposition. Using the same cell setup, we applied a constant current density of 30 μ A cm -2 to reach the total capacity obtained during LSV after around 100 h ( ∼ C/100). In agreement with the LSV experiment, the electrochemical oxidation starts at around 2.0 V vs Li + /Li during the /uniFB01 rst charge, and over 90% of the total capacity was obtained below 2.5 V vs Li + /Li, followed by almost no capacity during the /uniFB01 rst discharge and subsequent charge -discharge cycles (see the inset in Figure 3b). A similar constant-current method was employed to estimate the electrochemical stability of SSEs by using slurry-based working electrodes of SSE materials in liquid electrolyte cells. 29 However, the all-solid-state cell setup is much closer to the con /uniFB01 guration of all-solid-state batteries and allows focusing on electrochemical decomposition reactions of the SSE, excluding possible side reactions of the SSE with the liquid electrolyte, binder, and impurities (e.g., residual H 2 O) in liquid electrolyte cells.

Accurate determination of the electrochemical stability limit provides an interpretation of the electrochemical reactions in all-solid-state batteries outside the stability limit of SSEs. For instance, the initial irreversible discharge capacity of the Li/ LiBH4/LiBH4 -TiS2 cell reported previously 49 can be attributed to the electrochemical oxidation of LiBH4 as it was cycled up to 2.7 V vs Li + /Li, i.e., beyond its oxidative stability limit of ∼ 2.0 V vs Li + /Li.

To investigate the general applicability of this protocol for hydroborate-based SSEs, we re-evaluated the oxidative stability of four kinds of recently reported, superionic SSEs ( σ ion &gt; 10 -3 S cm -1 at 60 ° C) for all-solid-state battery applications, i.e., Li2(CB9H10)(CB11H12), Na3(BH4)(B12H12), Na4(B12H12)(B10 H10), and Na4(CB11H12)2(B12H12). 19,22 -24 Both Liand Na-ion conductors were selected because the oxidative stability of Li and Na hydroborates can be measured in the same way when their respective alkali metal is used as a reference electrode, i.e., vs M + /M (M = Li or Na). 29,32,35 Figure 4a shows the voltammogram of Li2(CB9H10)(CB11H12), displaying a stepwise increase of the anodic current with an E onset of 2.86 V vs Li + /Li. As with LiBH4, this result revealed much lower oxidative stability of Li hydrocloso -monocarbaborate compounds than the value (&gt;5 V vs Li + /Li) previously measured at scan rates of &gt;200 μ V s -1 without carbon addition. 19 The linear sweep voltammogram of Na3(BH4)(B12H12) in Figure 4b also shows two stepwise onsets of the anodic current at 1.90 and 2.41 V vs Na + /Na, indicating a multistep decomposition process. The /uniFB01 rst step at 1.90 V vs Na + /Na coincides with the computationally predicted

Figure 4. Linear sweep voltammograms of Li or Na/SSE/SSE-C/Pt cells using (a) Li2(CB9H10)(CB11H12) between 2.5 and 4.0 V vs Li + / Li, (b) Na3(BH4)(B12H12) between 1.5 and 3.0 V vs Na + /Na, (c) Na4(B12H12)(B10H10) between 2.5 and 3.5 V vs Na + /Na, and (d) Na4(CB11H12)2(B12H12) between 2.5 and 4.5 V vs Na + /Na, with 25 wt % Super C65 in the 5 mg SSE/carbon composite at a scan rate of 10 μ V s -1 at 60 ° C.

oxidative stability limit of NaBH4 ( ∼ 1.9 V vs Na + /Na). 35,36 Note that this value is signi /uniFB01 cantly lower than the oxidative stability of NaBH4-based SSEs (&gt;6 V vs Na + /Na) previously measured at much higher scan rates without carbon addition (e.g., 1 and 50 mV s -1 ). 20,23 We tentatively attribute the second step at 2.41 V vs Na + /Na to further electrochemical oxidation of [BH4] -decomposition products as [B12H12] 2 -ions are stable at least up to 3 V vs Na + /Na. 22 Figure 4c depicts the result for Na4(B12H12)(B10H10), showing two onsets at 3.02 and 3.22 V vs Na + /Na, which we tentatively attribute to the onset of decomposition of the less stable [B10H10] 2 -and more stable [B12H12] 2 -ions, respectively. In our earlier measurement without carbon addition at a scan rate of 100 μ V s -1 , these two peaks could not be distinguished and instead overlapped into one broad onset. 22 The voltammogram of Na4(CB11H12)2(B12H12) in Figure 4d exhibits a large contribution to the anodic current above 4 V vs Na + /Na with an E onset of 4.07 V vs Na + /Na, which is a similar value to the previously reported E onset of ∼ 4.1 V vs Na + /Na at a scan rate of 500 μ V s -1 . 24 However, we also observe smaller contributions to the anodic current with an E onset of 2.93 V vs Na + /Na which were concealed in the background current in the previous study. The four examples shown in Figure 4 con /uniFB01 rm the applicability of this method to other hydroboratebased SSEs and the possibility to unveil their oxidative stability limit with enhanced sensitivity, which again stresses the importance of carefully selected experimental conditions for accurate determination of oxidative stability of SSEs. Additionally, almost no cathodic (= reductive) current was observed in all of the cyclic voltammograms in Figure S5, which suggests a general irreversible nature of electrochemical oxidation reactions of hydroborates at high voltages. For a de /uniFB01 nitive attribution of the various faradaic contributions to the anodic current, a more detailed understanding of the multistep decomposition reaction pathways needs to be developed in the future.

## ■ CONCLUSION

Using LiBH4 as a model system, we established a methodology to determine the electrochemical oxidative stability of hydroborate-based SSEs in solid-state cells by LSV. Robust determination of E onset (2.0 V vs Li + /Li for LiBH4) is accomplished by linear /uniFB01 tting of background and anodic current contributions, a low scan rate of 10 μ V s -1 , and increasing the electronic contact area by means of SSE/carbon composites. We con /uniFB01 rmed the applicability of this method to other SSEs and found that previous reports overestimated the oxidative stability, from which it is proven to be important to select experimental conditions carefully for accurate determination of the oxidative stability.

The understanding of the intrinsic electrochemical oxidative stability of SSEs and their electrochemical decomposition reaction pathways determines the choice of cathode materials in all-solid-state batteries. Decent all-solid-state battery performance was attributed to the slow kinetics of decomposition reactions when all-solid-state batteries are cycled to an upper cuto /uniFB00 voltage slightly above the oxidative stability of SSEs. 28 However, to enable stable cycling with cathode materials with redox potentials far outside the oxidative stability, it is important to identify decomposition products and determine their ionic and electronic transport properties as well as their mechanical properties. If no passivating interphase is spontaneously formed by the decomposition products, arti /uniFB01 cial protective coatings need to be applied to allow stable cycling beyond the electrochemical stability limit of the electrolyte. The experimental methodology in this study provides key information to direct appropriate selection of cathode materials and de /uniFB01 ne interface engineering strategies.

## ■ ASSOCIATED CONTENT

## * S Supporting Information

The Supporting Information is available free of charge on the ACS Publications website at DOI: 10.1021/acsaem.9b01487.

Linear sweep voltammograms of Li/LiBH4/LiBH4-C/Pt or glassy carbon cells with di /uniFB00 erent scan rates or types of conductive carbon in the LiBH4/carbon composite; E onset plotted against the total surface area of the conductive carbon in the LiBH4/carbon composite; cyclic voltammograms of Li or Na/SSE/SSE-C/Pt cells using other hydroborate-based SSEs (PDF)

## ■ AUTHOR INFORMATION

## Corresponding Author

* E-mail arndt.remhof@empa.ch.

## ORCID

Ryo Asakura: 0000-0002-9264-9493

Le ́ o Duche ̂

ne: 0000-0003-0309-4682

hnel: 0000-0003-1542-2970

Ruben-Simon Ku ̈

DOI: 10.1021/acsaem.9b01487

2019, 2, 6924 - 6930

Arndt Remhof: 0000-0002-8394-9646

Hans Hagemann: 0000-0002-7183-8543

Corsin Battaglia: 0000-0002-5003-1134

## Notes

The authors declare no competing /uniFB01 nancial interest.

## ■ ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

This work was partially supported by the Swiss National Science Foundation (SNFS) through funding for the Sinergia project ' Novel ionic conductors ' under contract CRSII2\_160749/1 and InnoSuisse through funding for the Swiss Competence Center for Energy Research (SCCER) Heat and Electricity Storage under contract 1155-002545.

## ■ REFERENCES

- (1) Janek, J.; Zeier, W. G. A Solid Future for Battery Development. Nat. Energy 2016 , 1 (9), 16141.
- (2) Manthiram, A.; Yu, X.; Wang, S. Lithium Battery Chemistries Enabled by Solid-State Electrolytes. Nat. Rev. Mater. 2017 , 2 (4), 16103.
- (3) Lu, Y.; Li, L.; Zhang, Q.; Niu, Z.; Chen, J. Electrolyte and Interface Engineering for Solid-State Sodium Batteries. Joule 2018 , 2 (9), 1747 -1770.
- (4) Unemoto, A.; Matsuo, M.; Orimo, S. Complex Hydrides for Electrochemical Energy Storage. Adv. Funct. Mater. 2014 , 24 (16), 2267 -2279.
- (5) Mohtadi, R.; Orimo, S. The Renaissance of Hydrides as Energy Materials. Nat. Rev. Mater. 2016 , 2 , 16091.
- (6) Matsuo, M.; Nakamori, Y.; Orimo, S.; Maekawa, H.; Takamura, H. Lithium Superionic Conduction in Lithium Borohydride Accompanied by Structural Transition. Appl. Phys. Lett. 2007 , 91 , 224103.
- (7) Takahashi, K.; Hattori, K.; Yamazaki, T.; Takada, K.; Matsuo, M.; Orimo, S.; Maekawa, H.; Takamura, H. All-Solid-State Lithium Battery with LiBH4 Solid Electrolyte. J. Power Sources 2013 , 226 , 61 -64.
- (8) Udovic, T. J.; Matsuo, M.; Unemoto, A.; Verdal, N.; Stavila, V.; Skripov, A. V.; Rush, J. J.; Takamura, H.; Orimo, S. Sodium Superionic Conduction in Na2B12H12. Chem. Commun. 2014 , 50 (28), 3750 -3752.
- (9) Udovic, T. J.; Matsuo, M.; Tang, W. S.; Wu, H.; Stavila, V.; Soloninin, A. V.; Skoryunov, R. V.; Babanova, O. A.; Skripov, A. V.; Rush, J. J.; Unemoto, A.; Takamura, H.; Orimo, S. Exceptional Superionic Conductivity in Disordered Sodium DecahydroCloso -Decaborate. Adv. Mater. 2014 , 26 (45), 7622 -7626.
- (10) Tang, W. S.; Unemoto, A.; Zhou, W.; Stavila, V.; Matsuo, M.; Wu, H.; Orimo, S.; Udovic, T. J. Unparalleled Lithium and Sodium Superionic Conduction in Solid Electrolytes with Large Monovalent Cage-like Anions. Energy Environ. Sci. 2015 , 8 (12), 3637 -3645.
- (11) Tang, W. S.; Matsuo, M.; Wu, H.; Stavila, V.; Zhou, W.; Talin, A. A.; Soloninin, A. V.; Skoryunov, R. V.; Babanova, O. A.; Skripov, A. V.; Unemoto, A.; Orimo, S.; Udovic, T. J. Liquid-Like Ionic Conduction in Solid Lithium and Sodium MonocarbaCloso -Decaborates Near or at Room Temperature. Adv. Energy Mater. 2016 , 6 (8), 1502237.
- (12) Tang, W. S.; Matsuo, M.; Wu, H.; Stavila, V.; Unemoto, A.; Orimo, S.-i.; Udovic, T. J. Stabilizing Lithium and Sodium Fast-Ion Conduction in Solid Polyhedral-Borate Salts at Device-Relevant Temperatures. Energy Storage Mater. 2016 , 4 , 79 -83.
- (13) Kim, S.; Toyama, N.; Oguchi, H.; Sato, T.; Takagi, S.; Ikeshoji, T.; Orimo, S. Fast Lithium-Ion Conduction in Atom-Deficient Closo -Type Complex Hydride Solid Electrolytes. Chem. Mater. 2018 , 30 (2), 386 -391.
- (14) Zhu, M.; Pang, Y.; Lu, F.; Shi, X.; Yang, J.; Zheng, S. In Situ Formed Li-B-H Complex with High Li-Ion Conductivity as a Potential Solid Electrolyte for Li Batteries. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2019 , 11 (15), 14136 -14141.
- (15) Blanchard, D.; Nale, A.; Sveinbjo ̈ rnsson, D.; Eggenhuisen, T. M.; Verkuijlen, M. H. W.; Suwarno; Vegge, T.; Kentgens, A. P. M.; de Jongh, P. E. Nanoconfined LiBH4 as a Fast Lithium Ion Conductor. Adv. Funct. Mater. 2015 , 25 (2), 184 -192.
- (16) Lu, F.; Pang, Y.; Zhu, M.; Han, F.; Yang, J.; Fang, F.; Sun, D.; Zheng, S.; Wang, C. A High-Performance Li -B -H Electrolyte for All-Solid-State Li Batteries. Adv. Funct. Mater. 2019 , 29 (15), 1809219.
- (17) Maekawa, H.; Matsuo, M.; Takamura, H.; Ando, M.; Noda, Y.; Karahashi, T.; Orimo, S. Halide-Stabilized LiBH4, a Room-Temperature Lithium Fast-Ion Conductor. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2009 , 131 (3), 894 -895.
- (18) Yan, Y.; Ku ̈ hnel, R. S.; Remhof, A.; Duche ̂ ne, L.; Reyes, E. C.; Rentsch, D.; Ł odziana, Z.; Battaglia, C. A Lithium AmideBorohydride Solid-State Electrolyte with Lithium-Ion Conductivities Comparable to Liquid Electrolytes. Adv. Energy Mater. 2017 , 7 (19), 1700294.
- (19) Kim, S.; Oguchi, H.; Toyama, N.; Sato, T.; Takagi, S.; Otomo, T.; Arunkumar, D.; Kuwata, N.; Kawamura, J.; Orimo, S. A Complex Hydride Lithium Superionic Conductor for High-Energy-Density AllSolid-State Lithium Metal Batteries. Nat. Commun. 2019 , 10 (1), 1081.
- (20) Matsuo, M.; Kuromoto, S.; Sato, T.; Oguchi, H.; Takamura, H.; Orimo, S. Sodium Ionic Conduction in Complex Hydrides with [BH4] 2 -and [NH4] 2 -Anions. Appl. Phys. Lett. 2012 , 100 , 203904.
- (21) He, L.; Lin, H.; Li, H. F.; Filinchuk, Y.; Zhang, J.; Liu, Y.; Yang, M.; Hou, Y.; Deng, Y.; Li, H. W.; Shao, H.; Wang, L.; Lu, Z. Na3NH2B12H12 as High Performance Solid Electrolyte for All-SolidState Na-Ion Batteries. J. Power Sources 2018 , 396 , 574 -579.
- (23) Sadikin, Y.; Brighi, M.; Schouwink, P.; C ̌ erny ́ , R. Superionic Conduction of Sodium and Lithium in Anion-Mixed Hydroborates Na3BH4B12H12 and (Li0.7Na0.3)3BH4B12H12. Adv. Energy Mater. 2015 , 5 (21), 1501016.
- (22) Duche ̂ ne, L.; Ku ̈ hnel, R. S.; Rentsch, D.; Remhof, A.; Hagemann, H.; Battaglia, C. A Highly Stable Sodium Solid-State Electrolyte Based on a Dodeca/Deca-Borate Equimolar Mixture. Chem. Commun. 2017 , 53 (30), 4195 -4198.
- (24) Brighi, M.; Murgia, F.; Ł odziana, Z.; Schouwink, P.; Wo ł czyk, A.; C ̌ erny ́ , R. A Mixed Anion Hydroborate/Carba-Hydroborate as a Room Temperature Na-Ion Solid Electrolyte. J. Power Sources 2018 , 404 , 7 -12.
- (25) Tang, W. S.; Yoshida, K.; Soloninin, A. V.; Skoryunov, R. V.; Babanova, O. A.; Skripov, A. V.; Dimitrievska, M.; Stavila, V.; Orimo, S.; Udovic, T. J. Stabilizing Superionic-Conducting Structures via Mixed-Anion Solid Solutions of MonocarbaCloso -Borate Salts. ACS Energy Lett. 2016 , 1 (4), 659 -664.
- (26) Sveinbjo ̈ rnsson, D.; Viskinde, R.; Christiansen, A. S.; Norby, P.; Vegge, T. The LiBH4-LiI Solid Solution as an Electrolyte in an AllSolid-State Battery. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2014 , 161 (9), A1432 -A1439.
- (27) Xiang, M.; Li, L.; Chen, J.; Wang, Z.; Zhang, Y.; Zhan, L.; Zhu, Y.; Guo, X. Study on x LiBH4-NaBH4 (x = 1.6, 2.3, and 4) Composites with Enhanced Lithium Ionic Conductivity. J. Alloys Compd. 2017 , 729 , 936 -941.
- (28) Duche ̂ ne, L.; Ku ̈ hnel, R. S.; Stilp, E.; Cuervo Reyes, E.; Remhof, A.; Hagemann, H.; Battaglia, C. A Stable 3 V All-Solid-State Sodium-Ion Battery Based on a Closo -Borate Electrolyte. Energy Environ. Sci. 2017 , 10 (12), 2609 -2615.
- (29) Tian, Y.; Shi, T.; Richards, W. D.; Li, J.; Kim, J. C.; Bo, S. H.; Ceder, G. Compatibility Issues between Electrodes and Electrolytes in Solid-State Batteries. Energy Environ. Sci. 2017 , 10 (5), 1150 -1166.
- (30) Han, F.; Gao, T.; Zhu, Y.; Gaskell, K. J.; Wang, C. A Battery Made from a Single Material. Adv. Mater. 2015 , 27 (23), 3473 -3483.
- (31) Park, K. H.; Bai, Q.; Kim, D. H.; Oh, D. Y.; Zhu, Y.; Mo, Y.; Jung, Y. S. Design Strategies, Practical Considerations, and New Solution Processes of Sulfide Solid Electrolytes for All-Solid-State Batteries. Adv. Energy Mater. 2018 , 8 (18), 1800035.
- (32) Han, F.; Zhu, Y.; He, X.; Mo, Y.; Wang, C. Electrochemical Stability of Li10GeP2S12 and Li7La3Zr2O12 Solid Electrolytes. Adv. Energy Mater. 2016 , 6 (8), 1501590.

DOI: 10.1021/acsaem.9b01487

- (33) Zhang, W.; Leichtweiß, T.; Culver, S. P.; Koerver, R.; Das, D.; Weber, D. A.; Zeier, W. G.; Janek, J. The Detrimental Effects of Carbon Additives in Li10GeP2S12-Based Solid-State Batteries. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2017 , 9 (41), 35888 -35896.
- (34) Richards, W. D.; Miara, L. J.; Wang, Y.; Kim, J. C.; Ceder, G. Interface Stability in Solid-State Batteries. Chem. Mater. 2016 , 28 (1), 266 -273.
- (35) Lu, Z.; Ciucci, F. Metal Borohydrides as Electrolytes for SolidState Li, Na, Mg, and Ca Batteries: A First-Principles Study. Chem. Mater. 2017 , 29 (21), 9308 -9319.
- (36) Lacivita, V.; Wang, Y.; Bo, S. H.; Ceder, G. Ab Initio Investigation of the Stability of Electrolyte/Electrode Interfaces in AllSolid-State Na Batteries. J. Mater. Chem. A 2019 , 7 (14), 8144 -8155.
- (37) Zhu, Y.; He, X.; Mo, Y. Origin of Outstanding Stability in the Lithium Solid Electrolyte Materials: Insights from Thermodynamic Analyses Based on First-Principles Calculations. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2015 , 7 (42), 23685 -23693.
- (38) Nolan, A. M.; Zhu, Y.; He, X.; Bai, Q.; Mo, Y. ComputationAccelerated Design of Materials and Interfaces for All-Solid-State Lithium-Ion Batteries. Joule 2018 , 2 (10), 2016 -2046.
- (39) Xiao, Y.; Miara, L. J.; Wang, Y.; Ceder, G. Computational Screening of Cathode Coatings for Solid-State Batteries. Joule 2019 , 3 (5), 1252 -1275.
- (40) Matsuo, M.; Orimo, S. Lithium Fast-Ionic Conduction in Complex Hydrides: Review and Prospects. Adv. Energy Mater. 2011 , 1 (2), 161 -172.
- (41) Moury, R.; Gigante, A.; Hagemann, H. An Alternative Approach to the Synthesis of NaB3H8 and Na2B12H12 for Solid Electrolyte Applications. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2017 , 42 (35), 22417 -22421.
- (42) Olson, E. J.; Bu ̈ hlmann, P. Unbiased Assessment of Electrochemical Windows: Minimizing Mass Transfer Effects on the Evaluation of Anodic and Cathodic Limits. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2013 , 160 (2), A320 -A323.
- (43) Mousavi, M. P. S.; Dittmer, A. J.; Wilson, B. E.; Hu, J.; Stein, A.; Bu ̈ hlmann, P. Unbiased Quantification of the Electrochemical Stability Limits of Electrolytes and Ionic Liquids. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2015 , 162 (12), A2250 -A2258.
- (44) Choi, Y. S.; Lee, Y. S.; Choi, D. J.; Chae, K. H.; Oh, K. H.; Cho, Y. W. Enhanced Li Ion Conductivity in LiBH4 -Al2O3 Mixture via Interface Engineering. J. Phys. Chem. C 2017 , 121 (47), 26209 -26215.
- (45) Zhan, L.; Zhang, Y.; Zhuang, X.; Fang, H.; Zhu, Y.; Guo, X.; Chen, J.; Wang, Z.; Li, L. Ionic Conductivities of Lithium Borohydride-Lithium Nitride Composites. Solid State Ionics 2017 , 304 , 150 -155.
- (46) Miyazaki, R.; Sakaguchi, I.; Weitzel, K. M.; Hihara, T. Demonstration of the Conductive Species in ' Li-Free ' Solid Solvent Doped with LiBH4 and Its Li + Dominating Conduction Mechanism. Electrochim. Acta 2018 , 283 , 1188 -1194.
- (47) El kharbachi, A.; Hu, Y.; Yoshida, K.; Vajeeston, P.; Kim, S.; Sørby, M. H.; Orimo, S.; Fjellva ̊ g, H.; Hauback, B. C. Lithium Ionic Conduction in Composites of Li(BH4)0.75 I 0.25 and Amorphous 0.75Li 2S · 0.25P2S5 for Battery Applications. Electrochim. Acta 2018 , 278 , 332 -339.
- (48) Latroche, M.; Blanchard, D.; Cuevas, F.; El Kharbachi, A.; Hauback, B. C.; Jensen, T. R.; de Jongh, P. E.; Kim, S.; Nazer, N. S.; Ngene, P.; Orimo, S.; Ravnsbæk, D. B.; Yartys, V. A. Full-Cell Hydride-Based Solid-State Li Batteries for Energy Storage. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2019 , 44 (15), 7875 -7887.
- (49) Unemoto, A.; Ikeshoji, T.; Yasaku, S.; Matsuo, M.; Stavila, V.; Udovic, T. J.; Orimo, S. Stable Interface Formation between TiS 2 and LiBH4 in Bulk-Type All-Solid-State Lithium Batteries. Chem. Mater. 2015 , 27 (15), 5407 -5416.