## Superionic Conduction of Sodium and Lithium in Anion-Mixed Hydroborates Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12  and (Li 0.7 Na  0.3 ) 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12

Yolanda   Sadikin  ,   Matteo   Brighi  ,   Pascal   Schouwink  ,   and   Radovan   C ˇ erný  *

It  has  been  recognized  that  battery  grids  are  one  of  the  more realistic  contenders  for  future  large-scale  energy  storage. [ 1  ] A paradigm shift is taking place in battery research that is focusing on inexpensive and abundant chemical species as alternative to compensate for the dwindling resources of lithium in terms of charge carrier (electrolyte) [ 2  ] as well as a search for, in particular, Fe- and Mn-based electrode materials to replace current highcapacity electrodes based on costly transition metals such as Co or Ni. [  3  ]   These combined efforts target large-scale implementation, where low power density can be compensated for by quantity, and hence Na-based materials become one of the principal contenders. Many of the recent approaches employ a standard organic electrolyte, which imposes restrictions on the operating voltage window and the safety, for instance. This communication  deals  with  the  issue  of  the  electrolyte.  Superionic  (solidstate)  electrolytes  contribute  positively  both  to  the  working potential  window  as  well  as  to  safety  aspects  regarding  the breakdown  of  the  cell/grid. [ 4  ] Many  such  potential  solid-state materials  can  be  rationally  designed  from  lithium  or  sodium salts  containing  dynamically  disordered  complex  anions.  The structure  typically  contains  polyanions  [AB y ] n -with  covalent A B bonds (e.g., PO 4 3 -, SO 4 2 -and NO  2 -),  where the rotational diffusion of [AB y ] n -promotes cationic conductivity, decreasing the associated activation energy via the so-called 'paddle-wheel' mechanism.  [  5  ] After the fi  rst reports on superionic metal borohydrides [ 6,7  ] based  on  the  complex  anion  [BH 4 ] -and  possible 'paddle-wheel' mechanism in these compounds, [ 8  ] this concept was extended to higher boranes such as [B 10 H  10 ] 2 -or [B 12 H  12 ] 2 -in  Na-based  compounds. [ 9  ] It  was  shown  by  solid-state  NMR and quasi-elastic neutron scattering [  10  ] that  the  high  rotational mobility  promotes  superionicity  in  the  respective  materials, whose  conductivity  increases  by  several  orders  of  magnitude upon  polymorphic  order-disorder  transformations  into  the superionic high-temperature (HT) phases, ≈ 0.1  S  cm -1 (above 480  K)  and  0.01  S  cm -1 (above  380  K),  respectively;  however, transforming  reversibly  to  the  nonconducting  phase  upon temperature  decrease.  Currently,  therefore,  efforts  are  being

Y. Sadikin, M. Brighi, Dr. P. Schouwink,

Prof. R. C

ˇ erný

Department of Quantum Matter Physics Laboratory of Crystallography

University of Geneva

Quai Ernest-Ansermet 24

1211   Geneva  ,   Switzerland

E-mail:   radovan.cerny@unige.ch

DOI: 10.1002/aenm.201501016

invested to stabilize superionic conduction in such materials at room temperature (RT).

We have previously reported stable Cs- and Rb-borohydrides containing  the closo -borane  anion  [B 12 H  12 ] 2 -on  the A -site  of an  inversed  perovskite  structure, [  11  ]   whose  RT  polymorph had already been reported for Cs [  12  ]  and forming during the decomposition of bi- and trimetallic borohydrides. [  11  ]  We suspected that the incorporation of both complex anions in the same structure could provide means of stabilizing compounds with high symmetry,  favoring  cationic  mobility  at  RT.  Herein,  we  apply  this concept to anion-mixed metal boranes containing mobile species of relevance and present a novel class of solid electrolytes with the compounds Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 and (Li 0.7 Na 0.3 ) 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 , capable  of  conducting  either  Na + or  both  Na + and  Li + ions. Unlike  order-disorder-governed  dodeca-  and  decaboranes  the cationic mobility is not entropically activated in Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 and (Li 0.7 Na 0.3 ) 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 ,  thus requiring no HT phase transition. The conduction pathways in Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 are 2D where Na 2 B 12 H  12 -like  slabs  are  in  fact  nonconducting,  reaching  RT conductivity values close to the order of 10 -3  S cm -1  and hence superior to many sulfi  de glasses, NASICON and rivaling even β -alumina. [  13,14  ] (Li 0.7 Na 0.3 ) 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 , on the other hand, forms 1D channels for mixed cation conduction. The chemical reaction forming the compound at 500 K is accompanied by a dramatic increase in ionic conductivity attaining values higher than 10 -1 S  cm -1 in  the  thermal  stability  region.  Conductivity decreases upon cooling owed to full reversibility of the reaction. Such  temperatures  are  nevertheless  within  reasonable  limits for large-scale facilities, which operate at over 573 K in the case of Na-S power grids, for instance.

The new crystalline compounds Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 and (Li 0.7 Na 0.3 ) 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 form  during  thermal  treatment  of  ballmilled mixtures composed of different combinations of LiBH 4 , NaBH  4  ,  Li 2 B 12 H  12 ,  and  Na 2 B 12 H  12 .  The  in  situ  temperaturedependent  diffraction  data  showing  the  phase  formation  are available in the Supporting Information (Figure S1). Ball milling is also attracting attention in battery research due to its fl  exibility and the ease with which it is brought to the industrial scale. It has  recently  been  used  to  prepare  promising  Na-based  materials. [  13,15  ] We also recently employed it to scan a wide variety of perovskite-type metal-borohydride systems. [  12,16  ] Here it is used to 'activate' the powders, whereby no reaction takes place even at high energies. (Li 0.7 Na 0.3 ) 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 forms at 498 K (reaction onset)  and  dissociates  to  the  precursors  upon  cooling.  Meanwhile, the Na-rich Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12  forms above 638 K, and once formed it maintains the same structure in a wide temperature range of 100-653 K. Differential scanning calorimetry was used to follow the thermal events for the evolution of Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12

www.advenergymat.de

www.advenergymat.de

Figure 1. DSC measurement of the as-milled samples in sealed crucibles with heating/cooling rate 5 K min -1 : top) Na 2 B 12 H  12 :NaBH  4  showing the phase  formation  and  stabilization  of  compound  Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 during fi  rst and second heating cycle and bottom) Na 2 B 12 H  12 :LiBH 4  showing the formation and dissociation of (Li 0.7 Na  0.3 ) 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 .

and  is  shown  in Figure 1 (top).  Experiments  were  conducted in a sealed pan fi  lled with 1 bar of argon to prevent mass loss since we assume the partial gas pressure to play a crucial role in stabilizing the compounds. At temperatures above 525 K, in the fi  rst heating cycle prior to formation of Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 ,  the monoclinic-cubic phase transition of Na 2 B 12 H  12 is  observed  as an endothermic event ( I ), in agreement with the reported orderdisorder  transition. [ 17  ] Reaction    (  1)  peaks  at  638  K  ( III )  and involves the melting of NaBH 4 at  673  K  (event II could not be assigned), labeled as event IV in Figure   1  . In situ diffraction data (Figure  S1,  Supporting  Information)  coincide  with  this  event showing  the  vanishing  of  Bragg  signals  from  the  precursors and those emerging of the superionic phase. The formation of Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 proceeds via a solid-solid reaction on the surface Na 2 B 12 H  12 grains according to.

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

This  results in an epitaxial relationship found in the crystal structures which are discussed below. Reaction   (  1) is completed at  673  K.  We point out that Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 starts  to  dissociate again to its precursors if heated above 700 K, releasing molten NaBH  4 and solid bcc-Na 2 B 12 H  12 (Figure  S2,  Supporting  Information). A peritectic point is thus predicted in the phase diagram Na  2 B 12 H  12 :NaBH  4 ,  with  incongruent melting of the line phase Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 , visible as event IIb in the second heating cycle. Upon cooling the melt below the liquidus it recrystallizes again.  At  the  same  time,  if  quenched  within  its  thermal  stability interval ( T &lt; 700 K), Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 remains stable during cooling to RT, also during the second heating/cooling cycle to 523 K, as shown in Figure   1 (the compound's stability is higher than 4 months in an Ar-fi  lled glovebox). The coherent domain size  in  Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 was  refi  ned  during  cooling  revealing  a discrete  step  at  the  cubic-monoclinic  phase  transition  temperature of Na 2 B 12 H  12  accompanied by a stepwise decrease of the unit cell volume (Figure S3, Supporting Information). We

www.MaterialsViews.com interpret  this  increase  of  the  line  broadening  as  fracturing  of intergrown  Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 grains.  These  results  suggest  that Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 is  actually  the  stable  phase  at  RT,  and  the  asmilled composite is metastable.

The two-step formation of mixed-metal (Li 0.7 Na 0.3 ) 2 B 12 H  12 is described schematically as

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Ball-milling  the  precursors  Na 2 B 12 H  12 :LiBH 4 at  high  energies  yields  a  composite  of  NaBH 4 and  a  mixed-metal closo -borane  (Li 0.3 Na 0.7 ) 2 B 12 H  12 . Reaction    (  2)  proceeds  at  498  K forming the compound (Li 0.7 Na 0.3 ) 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 , visible as sharp endothermic peak in Figure   1 (bottom). The in situ diffraction data  are  available  in  the  Supporting  Information  (Figure  S1). Figure    1  (bottom)  shows  that  reaction    (  2)  is  fully  reversible, where during cooling (Li 0.7 Na 0.3 ) 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 segregates  to  the as-milled composite (Figure S1, Supporting Information).

A  very similar reversible reaction is observed for the system Li 2 B 12 H  12 :NaBH  4 ,  which  does  not  require  a  separate  discussion in this communication. For the sake of completeness, we explored  the  system  Li 2 B 12 H  12 :LiBH 4 which,  however,  did  not reveal similar phases. The mixture reacts at 543 K, producing a monoclinic phase whose crystal structure could presently not be solved.

The  crystal  structures  of  Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 and  (Li 0.7 Na 0.3 ) 3 -BH  4 B 12 H  12 were solved ab initio with Fox [  18  ]   and are shown in Figure 2 .  Average  positions  are  indicated  for  both  Na  and  Li atoms. As it was not possible to locate cation positions unambiguously  they  were  predicted  as  tetrahedral  sites  formed  by anions,  in  agreement  with  the  hitherto  reported  alkali  metalbased closo -compounds. [ 19  ] Eight  such  sites  were  identifi  ed using  TOPOS [ 20  ] and  were  then  tested  in  Rietveld  refi  nement with  TOPAS, [ 21  ] constraining  the  total  number  of  cations  in the unit cell. These tetrahedra are formed by borohydrides and closo -anions  either  as  1 + 3  or  2 + 2.  The  only  site  formed  exclusively  by  four closos was  systematically  refused  by  the  refi  nement,  leaving  seven  tetrahedral  sites  partly  occupied  in  both compounds and giving rise to low-dimensional superionicity as discussed below.

The  anion  sublattice  in  turn  is  well  characterized.  Based on the anion positions only, we observe a distinct relationship between  Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 and  (Li 0.7 Na 0.3 ) 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 ,  which  is traced back to the simple relationship between the CrB [ 22  ] and FeB prototypes, [  23  ]   respectively. The space groups of both compounds are noncentrosymmetric subgroups of the prototypes: Cmc 2 1 instead  of Cmcm for  Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 ( a = 8.0083(4), b = 21.881(1), c = 7.7672(4)  Å, V = 1361.05(12)  Å 3 )  at  523  K and Pna 2 1 instead  of Pnam for  (Li 0.7 Na 0.3 ) 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 ( a = 14.9739(8), b = 11.5435(6), c = 7.5934(4)  Å, V = 1312.5(1)  Å 3 ) at  523  K.  Inversion  symmetry  is  lifted  due  to  both  the  orientational  order  of  anions  and  small  shifts  of  the  anions  in  the closoborane-borohydrides.

The  c loso -anion  is  ordered  in  both  compounds,  despite  a mirror plane it is located on in Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 .  The BH 4 group occupies  general  position,  seemingly  ordered  as  well,  though potential  structural  disorder  of  this  anion  cannot  be  deduced

www.MaterialsViews.com

Figure 2. Crystal structure of mixed closoborane-borohydrides: left) Cmc 2 1 Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 refi  ned  from data at 523 K and right) Pna 2 1 (Li 0.7 Na  0.3 ) 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12  refi  ned from data at 523 K showing the connectivity and stacking of basic building units, trigonal prisms of closo -boranes. Only B atoms (red) of the closoboranes are shown; the borohydrides are shown simplifi  ed as big red spheres and cations as green spheres.

from  SR-XPD.  Both  prototypes  can  be  derived  by  twinning operations  from hcp (FeB)  or ccp (CrB)  stacking  of  the  larger atoms, [ 24  ] i.e., closo -boranes. Filling the interstitial sites of CrBtype  Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 with  the  smaller  Li  cation  stabilizes  the FeB type. Given that FeB type and CrB type are two end members,  there  exist  several  stacking  variants  between  them, [ 25  ] which could possibly form along the hypothetical binary phase diagram Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 -Li 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 , hence providing a roadmap for future studies on mixed-borane superionics. The Rietveld plots and structural parameters of the discussed structures are available as Figures S4-S6 (Supporting Information) and deposited CIF fi  les.

The temperature dependency of σ is  shown in Figure   3  . All as-milled  mixtures,  which  contain  only  composites  of  borohydride  and closo -borane  phases,  show  higher  values  for  the conductivity  at  RT  relative  to  the  as-received  Na 2 B 12 H  12 .  This effect  is  associated  with  mechanochemical processing and the grain  morphology of the powder. Upon temperature increase, a  remarkable  increase  is  observed  in  the  conductivity  of  all composite  mixtures  which  is  assigned  to  the  chemical  reactions forming the mixed closoborane-borohydride phases. The reversibility of the chemical reaction Na 2 B 12 H  12 :LiBH 4 forming (Li 0.7 Na 0.3 ) 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 results  in  a  conductivity  decrease  upon cooling  with  a  hysteresis  of  17  K,  which  correlates  well  with the  phase  composition  determined  from  in  situ  diffraction data (Figure S1, Supporting Information). Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 , on  the  other  hand,  is  stable  to  RT  once  synthesized  and  its RT  Na  conductivity  is  approximately  at  0.5 × 10 -3 S  cm -1 ,

The T -dependence  of  the  ionic  conductivity σ was  investigated  with  electrochemical  impedance  spectroscopy. Figure 3 (inset)  shows  the  Nyquist  plots  obtained  for  Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 using a pair of gold (Au) discs as ion-blocking electrodes and sodium (Na) foil as nonblocking electrodes. A semicircle with a spike in the low-frequency regime evidences blocking of Naions by the electrode in the Au cell. Using Na foils the electrode contribution (spike) is removed and Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 shows only a semicircle, from which σ is determined.

which is more than two orders of magnitude higher than the only  other  Na-conducting  borohydride  material  Na 2 BH  4 NH  2 (at  2 × 10 -6 S  cm -1 ) [  26  ]   and  comparable  to  the  most  promising  Na-based superionic currently under evaluation, such as β -alumina, [ 27  ] NASICON,  [  14  ] or  sulfi  de-based  glass  ceramics. [ 13  ] This  presents  hence  the  best  conducting  BH 4 material.  The activation energies E a (Na + ) for the hops between different accessible sites were determined from the Arrhenius plots where two linear regions of different slopes are fi  tted, the obtained values amounting to 340 meV (273-468 K) and 517 meV (218-273 K). The Na ion is therefore highly mobile over a wide temperature range.  Regarding  the  reported  superionic closo -materials  the Na  conduction  in  Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 is  facilitated  with  respect  to Na 2 B 10 H  10 (470 meV) and below that of Na 2 B 12 H  12 (210 meV). [ 8  ]

Figure 3. T emperature  dependence of the AC conductivity of as-milled samples M 2 B 12 H  12 : M BH  4 ( M = Li, Na) and as-prepared Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 . Conductivity  of  starting  material  Na 2 B 12 H  12 is  shown  for  comparison. Inset: Nyquist plots of Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12  using a pair of Au or Na electrodes measured at 293 K (pellet thickness 1.5 mm).

www.advenergymat.de

www.advenergymat.de

Figure  4. Cyclic  voltammogram  of  Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 measured  at  293  K (scan rate 50 mV s -1 , pellet thickness 1 mm).

In  contrast  to  Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 ,  the  latter  do  not  exhibit  superionic conduction at RT. Mixed-anion borohydride amide materials  such  as  Li 2 (BH  4 )(NH  2 )  (560  meV),  Li 4 (BH  4 )(NH  2 ) 3 (260 meV), or Na 2 BH  4  NH  2 (610 meV) show comparable activation energies even at RT, however with lower cationic conductivity of 2 × 10 -4 and 2 × 10 -6  S cm -1 . [  26,28  ]  LiBH 4 itself again has both a higher activation energy (560 meV) and higher transition temperature of the superionic phase. [ 6  ]

We  so  far  have  no  explanation  for  the  discontinuity  in E a (Na + )  at  273  K  in  as-prepared Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 .  The  sample is stable in the AC cell and diffraction shows a pure phase sample after  various  cycles  in  the  respective  temperature  range.  The gradual  thermal  activation  of  disorder  of  the  BH 4 group  may be at the origin of this, which has previously been observed in metal borohydrides, [ 29  ] and will require future investigations on the structural dynamics by means of NMR or QENS.

The  thermal  stability  fi  eld  of  (Li 0.7 Na 0.3 ) 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 is  very restricted within the investigated temperature range (Figure   3  ) and  it  was  not  possible  to  determine  reliable  activation  energies. At temperatures above the chemical reaction forming the phase the conductivity reaches values beyond 10 -1  S cm -1 .

The  electrochemical  window  of  Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12  shown  in Figure 4 was determined at RT with cyclic voltammetry using an asymmetric setup with Na and Au electrodes. Cathodic and anodic  currents  respectively  were  observed  near  0  V  showing reversible  sodium  plating  (Na + + e -→ Na)  and  stripping

www.MaterialsViews.com

(Na → Na + + e -). The absence of any further current up to 10 V versus  Na/Na + allows  us  to  exclude  electrochemical  reactions and  confi  rm  the  electrochemical  stability  of  Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 . Such a wide potential window suggests the material to be a suitable electrolyte for high-power batteries utilizing cathodes with very high positive voltages versus Na/Na + .

T o  determine  the  volume  accessible  to  mobile  species,  a structural  analysis  was  carried  out  with  TOPOS 20 on  both mixed-anion  compounds.  The  anion  submatrix,  from  which the voids are extracted, was built from boron atomic positions only.

The  conduction  pathways  are  shown  in Figure 5 . It is striking  that  there  is  a  dimensionality  change  in  superionic behavior between both compounds despite the identical anion stoichiometry.  The  refi  ned  average  positions  of  mobile  Na  in Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12  come to lie in structural fragments containing the BH  4 anion (Figure   2  ),  which can be rationalized as layers perpendicular  to  the b -axis,  in  analogy  to  CrB.  Thus,  regions of high Na density alternate with Na-free slabs built from the closo -anion.  The  layered  character  of  the  compound  is  also refl  ected  in  the  temperature  dependency  of  the  lattice  parameters  as  revealing  lower  thermal  expansion  for  the b -axis while  that  of a and c is  very  similar  (Figure  S7,  Supporting Information).  The  conduction  pathways  show  that  Na-free regions are not interconnected with Na-rich slabs, manifesting a  2D  mechanism  occurring  in  mixed-anion  slabs.  Though this is not expected, given the high conductivity of Na 2 B 12 H  12 , we  remind  that  the closo -anions  in  these  structures  are  not crystallographically  disordered  (though  they  may  be  on  a  different time scale). In superionic HT-Na 2 B 12 H  12  Na atoms hop between  interstitial  tetrahedral  sites  via  the  longest  edges  of the closo -tetrahedron,  with  a  length  of  8.098  Å,  the  shorter edges  (7.013  Å)  are  energetically  unfavored.  Nonconducting LT-Na 2 B 12 H  12  has  maximum  edge  lengths  of  7.422  Å.  In Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 ,  the  nonconducting slabs form sheets of edgesharing tetrahedra with an intrasheet edge length of 7.139 Å. The  edges  connecting  to  the  mixed-anion  slabs  are  considerably longer, reaching 8.008 Å. Hence, while Na ions may enter the closo -slab,  the higher energy barrier for conduction within the  slab  presents  the  bottleneck  of  the  conduction  path  and favors superionicity in the mixed-anion slab.

Interestingly, the conduction pathways are topologically different  in  mixed-cation  (Li 0.7 Na 0.3 ) 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 ,  for  the  Li + ion  (3D)  and  the  Na + ion  (1D).  It  is  best  seen  from  Figure    2 that  Na  mobility  is  again  associated  with  structural  fragments

Figure 5. Left) Anion framework and continuous 2D migration path (010) for Na ion constructed from possible voids and channels in the structure of Na  3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 . Centre and right) For mixed cation conductors (Li 0.7 Na  0.3 ) 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12   , the anion framework can provide continuous 1D migration path [001] for Na ion (gray channels) and 3D migration path for Li ion (yellow channels). All refi  ned positions of cations coincide with the calculated voids.

containing mixed anions, while the closo -areas are not included. This  leads  to  1D  conduction  channels  for  Na.  On  the  other hand, suffi  cient voids and channels are accessible to the smaller Li + ion, in order to allow for 3D superionic behavior.

As  a  means  of  altering  the  physical  properties  of  borohydrides the substitution BH 4 -↔ halide has often been employed to manipulate, e.g., hydrogen release, structural behavior, phase stabilities, or ionic conductivity. [  30  ]  Referring to this new family of mixed-anion boranes discussed herein, we have attempted to apply this concept to Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 , which we consider as the model compound from now on.

Anion substitution BH 4 -↔ I -in Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 was investigated  by  reacting  NaI  with  Na 2 B 12 H  12 ,  in  order  to  obtain  a compound free of BH  4 and thus less prone to hydrolyze. The substitution for iodide is known to occur easily and has been reported  various  times.  As  observed  for  many  mixed-metal mixtures  based  on closo -precursors  no  reaction  takes  place during  milling.  The  mixture  was  reacted  by  heating  the  asmilled mixture to 923 K and monitored by in situ diffraction. The  resulting  product  contains  a  single  main  phase  which was  solved  ab  initio  as  an  antiperovskite-derived  compound Na  3 IB 12 H  12 (Rietveld  plot  and  structural  model  as  Figure  S8 in  the  Supporting  Information)  with  two  half  occupied  Na positions,  indicating  signifi  cant  cationic  disorder.  We  hence expect  this  phase  to  have  a  high  Na  mobility.  Interestingly, the replacement of tetrahedral BH 4 -by spherical I -leads to a different structure type. The antiperovskite and CrB type are, however,  related  by  a  crystallographic  shear. [  24  ] Currently,  we have not succeeded in producing a suffi  cient sample amount to  study  its  ionic  conductivity,  information  on  its  superionic behavior  is  thus  not  yet  available,  but  ongoing  efforts  are focusing  on  this,  since  antiperovskite  systems  with  a  CsCltype  arrangement  of  anions,  such  as X ONa  3 ( X = NO 2 ,  Br, CN)  [  5  ] and X OLi 3 ( X = Cl,  Br) [  31  ] have  been  demonstrated  to favor superionic conductivity.

In summary, the fi  rst metal closoborane-borohydrides have shown to  favor  ionic  conductivity  of  both  Li  and  Na  cations. For  the  fi  rst  time,  a  borohydride-based  material  reaches  RT conductivity  values  of  close  to  10 -3 S  cm -1 . The high electrochemical stability and rather low activation energy of down to 340 meV reveal potential of the materials to work well in high voltage applications. Investigations on the structural dynamics at various timescales are required next to gain detailed insight into the conduction mechanism and the extent to which structural dynamics are actually involved, which play the dominant role  in  the  superionic  phases  of  Na  closoboranes  but  have herein  been  found  to  of  lesser  importance  in  closoboraneborohydrides;  an  important  fi  nding  since  it  does  not  require thermal  activation  of  ionic  motion  and  RT  superionics  can thus be realized.

In structural analogy to the FeB and CrB types, the (Li 1 -x Na x ) 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 family  is  expected  to  contain  further stacking  variants  in  the M BH  4 -M 2 B 12 H  12 ( M = Li,  Na)  phase diagram,  which  could  exhibit  superionic  conduction  and  be used as double-cation solid-state electrolytes  in  mixed  Li + /Na + batteries. [  32  ]   Next  to  this,  mixed-anion  compounds  based  on other  complex  anions  such  as  [B 10 H  10 ] 2 -will  be  explored  in the  future  in  a  search  for  tailor-made  crystalline  solids  with improved performance as solid-state electrolytes.

## Experimental Section

Synthesis :  LiBH4  ( &gt; 95%),  NaI  (99%),  and  NaBH4  (96%)  were purchased  from  Sigma-Aldrich, Na  2 B 12 H  12  (98.5%)  from  Katchem. Li 2 B 12 H  12 was  prepared  according  to  reference. [  33  ] The  reactants  were mixed  in  1:1 M 2 B 12 H  12 : M BH  4 or  NaI  ratio  ( M = Li,  Na),  and  milled at 400 rpm in a Fritsch Pulverisette 7 premium line at 30 2  min with 2  min  breaks.  The  powder-to-ball  mass  ratio  was  1:50.  Na 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12 was prepared by mechanical milling and consecutive heat treatment to 673  K  in  aluminum  crucibles  in  a  closed  system  at  rate  of  5  K  min -1 . The cation-mixed compound (Li 0.7 Na  0.3 ) 3 BH  4 B 12 H  12  was prepared by ball milling  1:1  mixtures  of  Na 2 B 12 H  12   and  LiBH 4 and  heating  the  sample to  493  K  in  a  closed  system.  It  can  also  be  prepared  by  ball  milling  a 1:1 mixture of Li 2 B 12 H  12  and NaBH  4 and a heating to 463 K in a closed system. It cannot be quenched to RT. All sample handling was done in a glovebox under argon atmosphere.

Synchrotron  Radiation  X-Ray  Powder  Diffraction  (SR-XPD) :  The  data used  for  crystal  structure  solution  and  refi  nements  were  collected between 298 K and 823 K at the Swiss-Norwegian Beamlines of ESRF (European Synchrotron Radiation Facility, Grenoble, France). Data were recorded  on  a  Dectris  Pilatus  M2  detector  at  a  wavelength  of  0.68884 and  0.81701  Å  calibrated  with  an  NIST  SRM660b  LaB 6 standard.  The temperature  was  controlled  with  a  hot  air  blower;  2D  images  were integrated and treated with FIT2D. [  34  ]  Another data set has been collected at the Materials Science beamline at the SLS (Villigen, Switzerland). Data were recorded with 1D silicon strip detector Mythen-II at a wavelength of  0.77487  Å  calibrated  with  an  NIST  SRM660b  LaB 6   standard.  The temperature  was  controlled  with  a  hot  air  blower.  All  samples  were measured in borosilicate capillaries (0.5 mm)  spun  during data acquisition. Details on structure solution and refi  nement are presented in the Supporting Information.

Differential Scanning Calorimetry (DSC) : Measurements were carried  out  on  a  Netzsch  STA449  F3  Jupiter  from  298  K  to  673  K  at  a ramping rate of 5 K min -1 using  sealed  Al  crucibles  as  sample  holder. Approximately 2.5 mg of sample was used for each run.

AC and DC Conductivity : The powder was cold-pressed into a pellet (diameter  3.175  mm,  thickness ≈ 0.8-1.5  mm  corresponds  to  85%90%  of  the  theoretical  density)  and  spring  loaded  between  Au  or  Na electrodes inside a Novocontrol sample cell BDS 1200. Electrochemical impedance  spectroscopy  (EIS)  was  performed  using  an  HP4192A  LF impedance  analyzer  (frequency  range  1  kHz-2  MHz,  applied  voltage 10 mV). Bulk conductivities were derived from interpreting circular arcs and/or  spike  intercept  on  the xaxis.  Cyclic  voltammetry  was  carried out  by  measuring  the  current-voltage  response  using  a  PC-controlled National Instrument PXI data acquisition.

Conduction  Path  Analysis :  The  possible  cationic  conduction  paths of  the  refi  ned  structures  were  determined  by  using  Voronoi-Dirichlet Polyhedra  (VDP)  analysis  implemented  in  the  program  package TOPOS.

All  hydrogens  were  removed  for  simplifi  cation  purpose,  [B 12 H  12 ] 2 -group  is  represented  by  a  B 12 cage  while  [BH 4 ] -group  is  represented by a single B atom, so the voids and channels for cationic conduction are  determined only by boron atoms. The channel was constructed by connecting voids that are large enough to accommodate a cation (radius of  void  sphere R sd &gt; 1.13  Å).  A  conduction  path  is  said  to  exist  if  the channel is continuous in at least one direction and the radius of channel is  close  to  cation-anion  distance  ( R ca ),  with R ca (Li-B) &gt; 2.62  Å  and R ca (Na-B) &gt; 2.66 Å.

## Supporting Information

Supporting  Information  is  available  from  the  Wiley  Online  Library  or from  the  author.  Further  details  of  the  crystal  structure  investigations may  be  obtained  from  the  Fachinformationszentrum  Karlsruhe,  76344 Eggenstein-Leopoldshafen (Germany), on quoting the depository numbers CSD-429705 and CSD-429706.

www.advenergymat.de

www.advenergymat.de

## Acknowledgements

This work was supported by the Swiss National Science Foundation. The authors acknowledge the Swiss-Norwegian Beamlines of ESRF and the Materials  Science  beamline  of  the  SLS  for  the  allocation  of  beamtime and excellent support with the data collection. The authors thank Prof. Hai-Wen Li for providing Li 2 B 12 H  12  for the synthesis. The authors thank Prof. Hans Hagemann and Manish Sharma for access and support for DSC/TG equipment.

Received:   May 22, 2015

Revised:   July 2, 2015

Published online: August 6, 2015

- [1]    a)   V .    Palomares  ,   P.   Serras  ,   I.   Villaluenga  ,   K. B.   Hueso  ,   J.   CarreteroGonzalez  ,    T .    Rojo  , Energ  Environ  Sci. 2012 , 5 ,    5884  ;    b)    K.    Kubota  , N.   Yabuuchi  ,   H.   Yoshida  ,   M.   Dahbi  ,   S.   Komaba  , Mrs Bull. 2014 , 39 , 416  ;   c)   B.   Dunn  ,   H.   Kamath  ,   J. M.   T arascon  , Science 2011 , 334 ,   928  .
- [2]    J. M.   T arascon  , Nat. Chem. 2010 , 2 ,   510  .
- [3]    a) A. Yamada  , MRS  Bull. 2014 , 39 , 423  ; b) B. C. Melot  , D.  O.    Scanlon  ,    M.    Reynaud  ,    G.    Rousse  ,    J.  N.    Chotard  ,    M.    Henry  , J. M.   Tarascon  , Acs Appl Mater Inter. 2014 , 6 ,   10832  ;   c)   N.   Y abuuchi  , S.   Komaba  , Sci. Technol. Adv. Mat. 2014 , 15 ,   043501  .
- [4]    N.    Y abuuchi  ,    K.    Kubota  ,    M.    Dahbi  ,    S.    Komaba  , Chem.  Rev. 2014 , 114 ,   11636  .
- [5]    M.   Jansen  , Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 1991 , 30 ,   1547.
- [6]    M.    Matsuo  ,    Y .    Nakamori  ,    S.    Orimo  ,    H.    Maekawa  ,    H.    T akamura  , Appl. Phys. Lett. 2007 , 91 ,   224103  .
- [7]    M. B.    Ley  , D.  B.    Ravnsbaek  ,    Y . Filinchuk  , Y. S.    Lee  , R.    Janot  , Y. W.   Cho  ,   J.   Skibsted  ,   T . R.   Jensen  , Chem. Mater. 2012 , 24 ,   1654  .
- [8]    a) P. Martelli  , A. Remhof  , A. Borgschulte  , R. Ackermann  , T.   Strassle  ,   J. P.   Embs  ,   M.   Ernst  ,   M.   Matsuo  ,   S. I.   Orimo  ,   A.   Zuttel  , J.  Phys.  Chem.  A. 2011 , 115 , 5329  ;    b) N.    Verdal  , T.  J. Udovic  , J. J.   Rush  ,   H.   Wu  ,   A. V .   Skripov  , J. Phys. Chem. C. 2013 , 117 ,   12010  ; c)   A. V .   Skripov  ,   A. V .   Soloninin  ,   M. B.   Ley  ,   T . R.   Jensen  ,   Y .   Filinchuk  , J. Phys. Chem. C. 2013 , 117 ,   14965  .
- [9]    a) T.  J.    Udovic  ,    M.    Matsuo  ,    A.    Unemoto  ,    N.    Verdal  ,    V .    Stavila  , A.  V.    Skripov  ,    J.  J.    Rush  ,    H.    T akamura  ,    S.    Orimo  , Chem. Commun. 2014 , 50 ,    3750  ;    b)    T .  J.    Udovic  ,    M.    Matsuo  ,    W .  S.    T ang  ,    H.    Wu  , V. Stavila  , A. V. Soloninin  , R. V. Skoryunov  , O.  A.    Babanova  , A. V.   Skripov  ,   J. J.   Rush  ,   A.   Unemoto  ,   H.   T akamura  ,   S.   Orimo  , Adv. Mater. 2014 , 26 ,   7622  .
- [10]    a) A. V. Skripov  , O.  A.    Babanova  , A. V. Soloninin  , V. Stavila  , N.    Verdal  ,    T .  J.    Udovic  ,    J.  J.    Rush  , J.  Phys.  Chem.  C. 2013 , 117 ,

www.MaterialsViews.com

- 25961  ;    b)    N.    Verdal  ,    T .  J. Udovic  ,    V .    Stavila  ,    W. S.   Tang  ,    J.  J.    Rush  , A. V.   Skripov  , J. Phys. Chem. C. 2014 , 118 ,   17483  .
- [11]    Y . Sadikin  , K.    Stare  , P. Schouwink  ,    M.    Brix Ley  , T. R.    Jensen  , A.   Meden  ,   R.   C ˇ erný  , J. Solid. State. Chem. 2015 , 225 ,   231  .
- [12]    I.   Tiritiris  , PhD Thesis , Universität Stuttgart, Stuttgart 2004 .
- [13]    A.    Hayashi  ,    K.    Noi  ,    A.    Sakuda  ,    M.    T atsumisago  , Nat.  Commun. 2012 , 3 ,   856  .
- [14]    O.    Bohnke  ,    S.    Ronchetti  ,    D.    Mazza  , Solid  State  Ionics 1999 , 122 , 127  .
- [15]    P.    Barpanda  ,    G.    Oyama  ,    S.    Nishimura  ,    S.  C.    Chung  ,    A.    Y amada  , Nat. Commun. 2014 , 5 ,   4358  .
- [16]    P.    Schouwink  ,    M.  B.    Ley  ,    A.    Tissot  ,    H.    Hagemann  ,    T .  R.    Jensen  , L.   Smrc ˇok  ,   R.   C ˇ erný  , Nat. Commun. 2014 , 5 ,   5706  .
- [17]    N.    Verdal  ,    J.  H.    Her  ,    V .    Stavila  ,    A.  V .    Soloninin  ,    O.  A.    Babanova  , A. V.   Skripov  ,   T . J.   Udovic  ,   J. J.   Rush  , J. Solid State Chem. 2014 , 212 , 81  .
- [18]    V .   Favre-Nicolin  ,   R.   C ˇ erný  , J. Appl. Crystallogr. 2002 , 35 ,   734  .
- [19]    N.   Verdal  ,   W .   Zhou  ,   V .   Stavila  ,   J. H.   Her  ,   M.   Yousufuddin  ,   T .   Yildirim  , T. J.   Udovic  , J. Alloys Compd. 2011 , 509 ,   S694  .
- [20]    V . A.   Blatov  , Struct. Chem. 2012 , 23 ,   955  .
- [21]    A. A.   Coelho  , J. Appl. Crystallogr. 2000 , 33 ,   899  .
- [22]    L.   Helmholz  , Z. Kristallogr. 1936 , 95 ,   129  .
- [23]    T .   Bjurström  , Ark. Kemi Mineral. Geol. 1933 , 11A ,   1  .
- [24]    B.  G.    Hyde  ,    S.    Andersson  , Inorganic  Crystal  Structures ,    Wiley  ,    New York 1989 .
- [25]    K.   Klepp  ,   E.   Parthe  , Acta. Crystallogr. B. 1981 , 37 ,   495  .
- [26]    M. Matsuo  , S. Kuromoto  , T. Sato  , H.    Oguchi  , H.    Takamura  , S.   Orimo  , Appl. Phys. Lett. 2012 , 100 ,   203904  .
- [27]    A.   Hooper  , J. Phys. D: Appl. Phys. 1977 , 10 ,   1487  .
- [28]    M.    Matsuo  ,    A.    Remhof  ,    P.    Martelli  ,    R.    Caputo  ,    M.    Ernst  ,    Y .    Miura  , T.    Sato  ,    H.    Oguchi  ,    H.    Maekawa  ,    H.    T akamura  ,    A.    Borgschulte  , A.   Zuttel  ,   S.   Orimo  , J. Am. Chem. Soc 2009 , 131 ,   16389  .
- [29]    D. Blanchard  , J. B. Maronsson  , M. D. Riktor  , J. Kheres  , D.    Sveinbjornsson  ,    E.  G.    Bardaji  ,    A.    Leon  ,    F.    Juranyi  ,    J.    Wuttke  , K.   Lefmann  ,   B. C.   Hauback  ,   M.   Fichtner  ,   T .   Vegge  , J. Phys. Chem. C. 2012 , 116 ,   2013  .
- [30]    A.    Unemoto  ,    M.    Matsuo  ,    S.    Orimo  , Adv.  Funct.  Mater. 2014 , 24 , 2267  .
- [31]    Y . S.   Zhao  ,   L. L.   Daemen  , J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2012 , 134 ,   15042  .
- [32]    L.   Chen  ,   Q. W .   Gu  ,   X. F.   Zhou  ,   S. X.   Lee  ,   Y . G.   Xia  ,   Z. P.   Liu  , Sci RepUk. 2013 , 3 ,   1946  .
- [33]    L.  Q.    He  ,    H.  W .    Li ,    S.  J.    Hwang  ,    E.    Akiba  , J.  Phys.  Chem.  C. 2014 , 118 ,   6084  .
- [34]    A. P.    Hammersley  ,    S.  O.    Svensson  ,    M.    Hanfl  and  ,    A. N.    Fitch  , D.   Hausermann  , High Pressure Res. 1996 , 14 ,   235  .