## ChemComm

## COMMUNICATION

Cite this: Chem. Commun. , 2023, , 639

5

9

Received 26th August 2022, Accepted 7th December 2022

DOI: 10.1039/d2cc04718g

rsc.li/chemcomm

The ''single-crystal'' lithium-rich layered oxide (SC-LLO) material is applied for the first time to construct a composite cathode by a co-sintering process for garnet-based high-energy all-solid-state lithium metal batteries, which exhibit the high initial discharge capacity of B 226 mA h g /C0 1 , and good capacity retention after tens of cycles.

All-solid-state lithium metal batteries (ASSLMBs) based on inorganic solid electrolytes have been extensively explored, and are expected to fundamentally solve the safety issues that are caused by the flammability of organic liquid electrolytes, and internal short circuiting by disordered growth of Li dendrites on the metal anode. 1-3 Compared to the sulfide and halide electrolytes, 4,5 the garnet-type Li7La3Zr2O12 (LLZO)-based electrolytes have a relatively high ionic conductivity, high chemical/ electrochemical stability towards the electrodes, and more importantly, a wide electrochemical stability window, which can couple with the high-capacity and high-voltage intercalation cathode material to further improve the energy density of ASSLMBs. 6-11 However, the available discharge capacities of the cathode materials in garnet-based ASSLMBs are still not high ( B 140 mA h g /C0 1 ), although LiCoO2 and Ni-rich layered oxides with various charge voltages have been adopted. 12-22 By comparison, the lithium-rich layered oxide (LLO) cathode materials with the formula of x Li2MnO3 /C1 (1 /C0 x )LiMO2 (M = Mn, Co, Ni) exhibit a high discharge capacity of over 250 mA h g /C0 1 , and have been estimated to supply a high energy density of solid-state batteries. 23-25 Nevertheless, the application of LLO cathode materials in garnet electrolyte supporting bulk-type ASSLMBs has never been explored.

a Institute of Advanced Battery Materials and Devices, Faculty of Materials and Manufacturing, Beijing University of Technology, Beijing, 100124, P. R. China. E-mail: hj-yu@bjut.edu.cn, xwguo@bjut.edu.cn

b Key Laboratory of Advanced Functional Materials, Ministry of Education, Beijing University of Technology, Beijing, 100124, P. R. China

† Electronic supplementary information (ESI) available. See DOI: https://doi.org/ 10.1039/d2cc04718g

‡ These authors contributed equally to this work.

View Article Online View Journal | View Issue

## A high-energy all-solid-state lithium metal battery with ''single-crystal'' lithium-rich layered oxides †

Xin Yin, ‡ ab Deyang Li, ‡ ab Liangwei Hao, ‡ ab Yinzhong Wang, ab Yongtao Wang, ab Xianwei Guo,* ab Shu Zhao, ab Boya Wang, ab Lingqiao Wu ab and Haijun Yu * ab

Furthermore, the low capacity of the intercalation cathode material is generated from the low utilization efficiency in the composite cathode for garnet-based ASSLMBs, which should be caused by the poor interface contact between the cathode and solid electrolyte, including the large interfacial resistance from the insufficient ion transfer pathways, and loss of contact from the volume change of the active material during charge/discharge processes. 11,21,26 To solve these problems, several approaches have been developed to make intimate interface contact in the composite cathode, such as blending with a polymer electrolyte, 27 a porous surface of the electrolyte pellet, 28 and a high-temperature sintering process. 10,18,20 Among these, the co-sintering method is an effective strategy to fabricate a compact composite cathode by using low-melting point additives, which can make sufficient interface contact for plenty of ion transport pathways. 16,29 Moreover, the ''single-crystal'' (SC) cathode materials are more beneficial for constructing a composite cathode by reducing the number of grain interfaces, and offering sufficient and continuous ion transport pathways for high utilization efficiency. 30-33

Herein, the ''single-crystal'' lithium-rich layered oxide (SC-LLO) cathode material is applied for the first time for constructing a composite cathode by a co-sintering process for garnet-based bulk-type ASSLMBs. The interface stability between the SC-LLO cathode and garnet electrolyte has been investigated by in situ high-temperature X-ray diffraction and theoretical calculations. The ASSLMB with SC-LLO cathode material exhibits a high discharge capacity and good capacity retention.

The crystal structure of the SC-LLO cathode material is detected by X-ray diffraction (XRD). As shown in Fig. 1a, the SC-LLO has a layered structure with a hexagonal phase in the space group of R % 3 m , and can be confirmed by the splits of the (006)/(012) and (018)/(110) peaks. 30 The diffraction peaks of 20-25 1 are indexed to the monoclinic symmetry Li2MnO3 (space group: C 2/ m ) crystal domain, and are caused by the cation ordering between Li and the transition metal (TM) in the TM layers. 23,24,34 From the Rietveld refinement of the XRD pattern with a two-phase model, the experimental data are in good agreement with the theoretical values. And the cell parameters

|

Fig. 1 The (a) XRD pattern, (b) SEM image, (c) HRTEM image, and (d) element dispersions of the SC-LLO cathode material.

in the crystal structure are summarized in Table S1 (ESI † ), and are consistent with the designed structure of Li1.2Mn0.567Ni0.167Co0.067O2.

From the SEM image in Fig. 1b, the SC-LLO material has monodisperse crystalline grains with an average diameter of B 1-2 m m. The HRTEM shows the lattice fringe of B 4.75 Å for the (003) plane of the cathode material with a layered structure (Fig. 1c). The lattice structure is further confirmed by the electron diffraction pattern in Fig. S1 (ESI † ). Fig. 1d shows the homogeneous element dispersions of Ni, Mn and Co in the SC-LLO crystalline grains. The molar ratio of Ni/Co/Mn element in the SC-LLO material is close to the designed value (Table S2, ESI † ).

As the co-sintering method is used for the construction of a composite cathode, in situ high-temperature XRD (HTXRD) is used to explore the interface stability between the SC-LLO material and Ta-doped LLZO (LLZTO) electrolyte during treatment. 21 The properties of LLZTO are shown in Fig. S2 (ESI † ). From the in situ HTXRD in Fig. 2a and Fig. S3a (ESI † ), the structures of both the cathode and electrolyte can be stabilized at B 700 1 C. However, the new interphase in the range of 27-29 1 and 32-34 1 can be found when the temperature is over 700 1 C, indicating the interfacial side reactions between SC-LLOs and LLZTO. The reactions become more serious when the temperature increases from 700 1 C to 1000 1 C, while the interphase keeps the structure when the temperature returns to 25 1 C. The peak shift of the interphase from 1000 1 C to 25 1 C is caused by the temperature change, similar to that of LLZTO. The diffraction peaks at 27-29 1 can be indexed to the (222) plane of La2Zr2O7, and the peaks of 32-33 1 belong to the (110) and (104) planes of LaMnO3. The variety of interface stability has been confirmed by the full contour plots of the 2D XRD patterns in Fig. 2b and Fig. S3b (ESI † ), consistent with the tendency of in situ HTXRD. So La2Zr2O7 and LaMnO3 formed during the sintering temperature of 700-1000 1 C, the interfacial ion transport is blocked, and the utilization of the cathode material is adversely affected. Thus, the co-sintering temperature should not be higher than 700 1 C for the stable interface contact between SC-LLO and LLZTO materials.

Fig. 2 (a) The in situ HTXRD patterns for sintering the mixture of SC-LLO and LLZTO particles at different temperatures. (b) The corresponding contour plot of 2D XRD patterns with different temperatures. (c) The ion exchange energy of La and Mn at the interface. (d) The Li vacancy formation energy at different sites.

Theoretical calculations are further adopted to explore the interface element interdiffusion between SC-LLOs and LLZTO. As the SC-LLO has the structure of a LiTMO2-Li2MnO3 crystal domain, the interface model of Li2MnO3(010)/LLZO(100) is constructed for convenience (Fig. S4, ESI † ). 23,35 The exchange energy E La-Mn between La and Mn ions at the interface has been evaluated. As shown in Fig. 2c, the E La-Mn is more thermodynamically advantageous than that in the bulk. The negative values of /C0 4.33 eV and /C0 2.85 eV imply that La and Mn exchange is an exothermic process, indicating that element interdiffusion can easily occur at the interface. The Li vacancy formation energy ( E V) in LLZO near the interface is calculated (Fig. 2d). The value of E V represents the required energy for Li ions to get rid of the constraint from the surrounding environment. The lower the value of E V, the worse the stability of the Li atoms, and the easier vacancy formation. For the selected sites, the E V of the Li atom in the bulk phase of LLZO is B 3.81 eV, while the minimum E V near the interface is only B 1.44 eV, indicating the weaker stability of the partial Li atom near the interface than that in the bulk structure. Thus, under the external conditions of high temperature or electric field, the Li atom near the interface can be excited and a vacancy (even the deficient layer) can be formed. As shown in Fig. 2a and b, La2Zr2O7 formed during the sintering process, which should be generated by the formation of a Li vacancy or deficient layer under a high temperature.

According to the previous work, 21 the trilaminar structure of the LLZTO pellet supporting cathode and anode needs to be fabricated for assembling bulk-type ASSLMBs. The conductive Li3BO3 (LBO) with low melting point ( B 700 1 C) and strong wetting capability can be used as the sintering additive for preparing the composite cathode, which can improve the interface contact and offer a continuous Li + transport pathway to enhance the utilization efficiency of the cathode material. 16,20,21,36,37 So the SC-LLOs + LLZTO + LBO/LLZTO bilayer structure is constructed by

Fig. 3 The (a and b) cross-sectional SEM images, and (c and d) top surface of the composite cathode layer before and after co-sintering. (e) The XRD patterns of the composite cathode before and after co-sintering. (f) The EIS of ASSLMBs with the SC-LLOs + LLZTO + LBO/LLZTO/Li structure before testing.

co-sintering at 700 1 C for 1 h. Fig. 3a and b show the crosssectional SEM images of the bilayer structure before and after cosintering. Compared with the porous and loose structure at the initial state, a dense structure can be obtained by the molten LBO, and intimate interface contact can be achieved after sintering. From the top surface of the composite cathode layer before and after sintering (Fig. 3c and d), the SC-LLOs and LLZTO particles are buried in the molten LBO after co-sintering, and are not easy to be distinguished from each other. Thus, the intimate interface contact between the cathode and electrolyte materials can be made by diffusion of LBO, and be favorable for sufficient ion transport.

From the elemental mappings in the composite cathode (Fig. S5, ESI † ), both the SC-LLOs and LLZTO keep their original morphologies. From Fig. 3e, the typical peaks of the SC-LLOs and LLZTO can be obviously identified after co-sintering. Thus, both the morphology and structure of the cathode and electrolyte materials remain stable after co-sintering. Fig. 3f shows the EIS of ASSLMBs with a SC-LLOs + LLZTO + LBO/LLZTO/Li trilaminar structure before the charge/discharge test. From the inserted equivalent circuit, the interfacial charge transfer resistance in the composite cathode side is B 62 O , indicating the intimate interface contacts between the SC-LLOs and LLZTO particles in the composite cathode, and between the composite cathode layer and electrolyte pellet. Thus, the compact structure with SC-LLOs and molten LBO is beneficial for offering sufficient ion transport pathways, and promoting the high utilization of the SC-LLO material.

Fig. 4a shows the initial charge/discharge curves of bulk-type ASSLMBs between 2.0 and 4.7 V at the current density of 0.05 C

Fig. 4 (a) The initial charge/discharge curves of ASSLMBs with SC-LLOs at 0.05 C at 80 1 C, and the corresponding d Q /d V profiles. (b) The comparisons of the discharge capacities of garnet-based bulk-type ASSLMBs with different cathode materials. (c) The cycling stabilities and Coulombic efficiencies of ASSLMBs with different content of SC-LLOs. The 30-5020 is the mass ratio of SC-LLOs, LLZTO and LBO.

(1 C = 200 mA g /C0 1 ). The battery exhibits the typical profiles of the LLO cathode material with a sloping curve below 4.5 V and plateau around 4.5 V in the charge process, and a continuous sloping curve during the discharge process. 30-33 The initial discharge capacity of the SC-LLO material can be up to B 226 mA h g /C0 1 , and is comparable to that of a liquid electrolyte based battery (LEB) (Fig. S6, ESI † ). The over-potential between the charge and discharge potentials is a little higher than that of LEB, and the initial coulombic efficiency is also lower, which is caused by the restricted Li + transport pathways from the large LLZTO particle size, and relatively lower ionic conductivities of LLZTO and molten LBO than that of liquid electrolytes. The low coulombic efficiency should also be originated from the irreversible Li + extraction from the Li2MnO3 crystal domain on the 4.5 V plateau and the structure damage on the surface of the cathode material during the charge process, 30 which are further confirmed by the d Q /d V profiles in Fig. 4a. The stronger oxidation peak with larger area around 4.5 V corresponds to the large capacity in the initial charge curve. Furthermore, compared to the garnet-based ASSLMBs with sintered or blended composite cathodes with LiNi x -Co y Mn1 /C0 x /C0 y O2, LiFePO4, and LiCoO2 materials (Fig. 4b and Table S3, ESI † ), the SC-LLO exhibits the highest discharge capacity, and thus a high-energy all-solid-state battery can be developed for possible applications.

The cycling stabilities of ASSLMBs with different content of SC-LLO material in the composite cathode are compared (Fig. 4c). The batteries show similar initial discharge capacities. However, with the high content (50 wt%) of LLZTO particles, the discharge capacity of B 180 mA h g /C0 1 can be maintained after 30 cycles, which is much higher than that with low content of solid electrolyte. Thus, the high discharge capacity of ASSLMBs is benefited from the high utilization efficiency of the SC-LLO material, and the sufficient and continuous ion

|

transport pathways through LLZTO and molten LBO in the composite cathode.

The possible degradation mechanism of ASSLMBs has been explored by detecting the composite cathode that disassembled after tens of cycles. As shown in Fig. S7 (ESI † ), compared to the compact structure of the composite cathode at the initial state, sub-micrometer sized cracks can be found after cycling. As there is rigid interface contact in the composite cathode, cracks appear after repeated cycles, which lead to the loss of interface contact, the disruption of ion transport pathways, the increase of the interface resistance, and the decline of the cycling stability of ASSLMBs. Furthermore, the interdiffusions of the Mn and La elements were also detected in the composite cathode after cycling (Fig. S8, ESI † ), which is also a possible reason for the degradation of the electrochemical performance. Thus, a soft interface contact in the composite cathode needs to be constructed, and a thinner electrolyte film should be designed, which could promote the practical application of high-energy ASSLMBs.

In summary, the SC-LLO cathode material is firstly applied for the garnet-based bulk-type ASSLMBs. The in situ hightemperature X-ray diffraction and theoretical calculations have confirmed the interface side reactions with the formation of an inert interphase between the cathode and solid electrolyte materials at the sintering temperature of over 700 1 C. By using the SC-LLO cathode and molten LBO as the interface engineering strategy during the co-sintering process of the composite cathode, the high utilization of the SC-LLO material can be achieved, and the ASSLMBs exhibit a high initial discharge capacity of B 226 mA h g /C0 1 , and good capacity retention after tens of cycles. This work demonstrates that the SC-LLO material is a promising candidate for developing higher energy ASSLMBs for future applications.

This work was financially supported by the Key Project of Science and Technology of Beijing Municipal Education Commission (KZ201910005002), National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grants 21875007, 21975006, 21974007), Beijing Natural Science Foundation (JQ19003), ''The Youth Beijing Scholars program'' (PXM2021\_014204\_000023), and China Postdoctoral Science Foundation (2021M700297).

## Conflicts of interest

There are no conflicts to declare.

## Notes and references

- 1 N. Kamaya, K. Homma, Y. Yamakawa, M. Hirayama, R. Kanno, M. Yonemura, T. Kamiyama, Y. Kato, S. Hama, K. Kawamoto and A. Mitsui, Nat. Mater. , 2011, 10 , 682-686.
- 2 C. P. Yang, K. Fu, Y. Zhang, E. Hitz and L. B. Hu, Adv. Mater. , 2017, 29 , 1701169.
- 3 X. Judez, G. G. Eshetu, C. Li, L. M. Rodriguez-Martinez, H. Zhang and M. Armand, Joule , 2018, 2 , 2208-2224.
- 4 C. Wang, J. Liang, Y. Zhao, M. Zheng, X. Li and X. L. Sun, Energy Environ. Sci. , 2021, 14 , 2577-2619.
- 5 X. Li, J. Liang, X. Yang, K. R. Adair, C. Wang, F. Zhao and X. L. Sun, Energy Environ. Sci. , 2020, 13 , 1429-1461.
- 6 R. Murugan, V. Thangadurai and W. Weppner, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. , 2007, 46 , 7778-7781.
- 7 Q. Liu, Z. Geng, C. Han, Y. Fu, S. Li, Y.-B. He, F. Kang and B. Li, J. Power Sources , 2018, 389 , 120-134.
- 8 C. Hansel, S. Afyon and J. L. Rupp, Nanoscale , 2016, 8 , 18412-18420.
- 9 S. Abouali, C.-H. Yim, A. Merati, Y. Abu-Lebdeh and V. Thangadurai, ACS Energy Lett. , 2021, 6 , 1920-1941.
- 10 M. Jia, N. Zhao, H. Huo and X. Guo, Electrochem. Energy Rev. , 2020, 3 , 656-689.
- 11 N. Zhao, S. Mu and X.-X. Guo, Acta Phys. Sin. , 2020, 69 , 228804.
- 12 F. Du, N. Zhao, Y. Li, C. Chen, Z. Liu and X. Guo, J. Power Sources , 2015, 300 , 24-28.
- 13 T. Liu, Y. Zhang, X. Zhang, L. Wang, S.-X. Zhao, Y.-H. Lin, Y. Shen, J. Luo, L. Li and C.-W. Nan, J. Mater. Chem. A , 2018, 6 , 4649-4657.
- 14 R. Balasubramaniam, C. W. Nam, V. Aravindan, D. Eum, K. Kang and Y. S. Lee, ChemElectroChem , 2021, 8 , 570-576.
- 15 H. Guo, F. Shen, W. Guo, D. Zeng, Y. Yin and X. Han, Mater. Lett. , 2021, 301 , 130302.
- 16 T. Liu, Y. Ren, Y. Shen, S.-X. Zhao, Y. Lin and C.-W. Nan, J. Power Sources , 2016, 324 , 349-357.
- 17 B. Ramkumar, K. So-young, N. Chan-woo, V. Aravindan and L. YunSung, Electrochim. Acta , 2020, 359 , 136955.
- 18 W. Feng, Z. Lai, X. Dong, P. Li, Y. Wang and Y. Xia, iScience , 2020, 23 , 101071.
- 19 Y. Ren and E. D. Wachsman, J. Electrochem. Soc. , 2022, 169 , 040529.
- 20 F. Han, J. Yue, C. Chen, N. Zhao, X. Fan, Z. Ma, T. Gao, F. Wang, X. Guo and C. Wang, Joule , 2018, 2 , 497-508.
- 21 X. Guo, L. Hao, Y. Yang, Y. Wang, Y. Lu and H. Yu, J. Mater. Chem. A , 2019, 7 , 25915-25924.
- 22 C. Roitzheim, Y. J. Sohn, L.-Y. Kuo, G. Ha ¨uschen, M. Mann, D. Sebold, M. Finsterbusch, P. Kaghazchi, O. Guillon and D. FattakhovaRohlfing, ACS Appl. Energy Mater. , 2022, 5 , 6913-6926.
- 23 H. Yu, Y.-G. So, A. Kuwabara, E. Tochigi, N. Shibata, T. Kudo, H. Zhou and Y. Ikuhara, Nano Lett. , 2016, 16 , 2907-2915.
- 24 H. Yu, Y. G. So, Y. Ren, T. Wu, G. Guo, R. Xiao, J. Lu, H. Li, Y. Yang, H. Zhou, R. Wang, K. Amine and Y. Ikuhara, J. Am. Chem. Soc. , 2018, 140 , 15279-15289.
- 25 Y. Yang, Z. Zhang, S. Liu, B. Wang, J. Liu, Y. Ren, X. Zhang, S. Zhao, D. Liu and H. Yu, Matter , 2022, 5 , 3869-3882.
- 26 X. Yang, K. Doyle-Davis, X. Gao and X. Sun, eTransportation , 2022, 11 , 100152.
- 27 H. Huo, Y. Chen, J. Luo, X. Yang, X. Guo and X. Sun, Adv. Energy Mater. , 2019, 9 , 1804004.
- 28 T. Hamann, L. Zhang, Y. Gong, G. Godbey, J. Gritton, D. McOwen, G. Hitz and E. Wachsman, Adv. Funct. Mater. , 2020, 30 , 1910362.
- 29 D. Wang, Q. Sun, J. Luo, J. Liang, Y. Sun, R. Li, K. Adair, L. Zhang, R. Yang, S. Lu, H. Huang and X. Sun, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces , 2019, 11 , 4954-4961.
- 30 Y. Wang, L. Wang, X. Guo, T. Wu, Y. Yang, B. Wang, E. Wang and H. Yu, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces , 2020, 12 , 8306-8315.
- 31 C. Xu, J. Li, J. Sun, W. Zhang and B. Ji, J. Alloys Compd. , 2022, 895 , 162613.
- 32 Y. Wang, E. Wang, X. Zhang and H. Yu, Energy Fuels , 2021, 35 , 1918-1932.
- 33 C. Wang, R. Yu, S. Hwang, J. Liang, X. Li, C. Zhao, Y. Sun, J. Wang, N. Holmes, R. Li, H. Huang, S. Zhao, L. Zhang, S. Lu, D. Su and X. Sun, Energy Storage Mater. , 2020, 30 , 98-103.
- 34 X. Zhang and H. Yu, Acc. Chem. Res. , 2020, 53 , 368-379.
- 35 J. Haruyama, K. Sodeyama and Y. Tateyama, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces , 2017, 9 , 286-292.
- 36 K. Park, B.-C. Yu, J.-W. Jung, Y. Li, W. Zhou, H. Gao, S. Son and J. B. Goodenough, Chem. Mater. , 2016, 28 , 8051-8059.
- 37 S. Ohta, S. Komagata, J. Seki, T. Saeki, S. Morishita and T. Asaoka, J. Power Sources , 2013, 238 , 53-56.