## Energy &amp; Environmental Science

## PAPER

Cite this: Energy Environ. Sci. 2022, , 3470

1

5

Received 31st March 2022, Accepted 5th July 2022

DOI: 10.1039/d2ee01067d

rsc.li/ees

## Broader context

All-solid-state lithium batteries (ASSLBs) are widely regarded as one of the most promising next generation electrochemical energy storage devices due to their advantages in superior safety performance and high energy density. It is appealing to apply high capacity lithium-rich cathode materials with solid electrolytes, taking their advantages of a wider electrochemical window to realize the high energy density of the ASSLBs. In this work, a stable and passivating electrode/ electrolyte interphase is reported for the sulfide-based solid electrolyte and lithium-rich Li2RuO3 cathode for the first time. Benefiting from the exceptionally high interfacial stability, a high reversible capacity and excellent rate capability are achieved, and the issues aroused by the detrimental interfacial side reactions have been effectively alleviated, which assuring the stable operation of ASSLBs.

## Introduction

With the rapid development of electric vehicles and grid energy storage, traditional cathode materials cannot fully meet market demand for high-energy-density lithium-ion batteries, such as LiNi1 /C0 x /C0 y Mn x Co y O2 (practical capacity about 200 mA h g /C0 1 ), LiFePO4 (140 mA h g /C0 1 ), etc. 1-3 Lithium-rich layered oxides have successfully attracted significant attention as promising high-capacity cathode materials due to their high capacity over 250 mA h g /C0 1 based on the active anionic (oxygen) redox on top of the cationic redox. 4,5 However, the commercialization of lithium-rich layered cathodes is still restricted due to various problems, such as poor cycling stability, undesirable rate capability, and large voltage decay during repeated cycling in cells with liquid electrolytes (LIBs). 6,7

,

a College of Energy, Xiamen University, Xiamen, 361102, China. E-mail: zlgong@xmu.edu.cn, yyang@xmu.edu.cn

b State Key Laboratory for Physical Chemistry of Solid Surface, Department of Chemistry, College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Xiamen University, Xiamen, 361005, China

c Empa, Swiss Federal Laboratories for Materials Science and Technology, Du ¨bendorf, 8600, Switzerland

d Advanced Light Source, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA

e Guilin Electrical Equipment Scientific Research Institute Co., Ltd, Guilin, 541004, China

† Electronic supplementary information (ESI) available. See DOI: https://doi.org/ 10.1039/d2ee01067d

‡ These authors contributed equally.

1

5

View Article Online View Journal | View Issue

## Highly reversible Li2RuO3 cathodes in sulfidebased all solid-state lithium batteries †

Yuqi Wu, ‡ a Ke Zhou, ‡ bc Fucheng Ren, a Yang Ha, d Ziteng Liang, b Xuefan Zheng, a Zhenyu Wang, e Wu Yang, a Maojie Zhang, b Mingzeng Luo, b Corsin Battaglia, c Wanli Yang, d Lingyun Zhu, e Zhengliang Gong * a and Yong Yang * ab

The practical application of high-capacity lithium-rich cathode materials in lithium-ion batteries has been largely restricted by severe side reactions with electrolytes. Herein, we report a highly stable lithium-rich Li2RuO3 cathode by forming a passivating solid electrolyte interphase at the interface with a sulfide solid electrolyte such as Li6PS5Cl in all-solid-state lithium batteries (ASSLBs), which efficiently suppresses serious parasitic interfacial reactions and fast-increasing interfacial impedance normally observed in liquid electrolytes. The exceptionally high interfacial stability of the Li2RuO3/sulfide electrolyte interface contributes to a high reversible capacity of 257 mA h g /C0 1 of Li2RuO3 at 0.05C rate, and unprecedented cycling stability with 90% capacity retention after 1000 cycles at 1C rate. Comprehensive experimental characterizations and first-principles calculations disclose that electronically insulating interfacial reaction products forming at the interface between the Li2RuO3 cathode and Li6PS5Cl facilitate the formation of a stable and passivating interphase and block the continuous side reactions. Importantly, reversible oxygen redox activity of Li2RuO3 is well-maintained in this configuration of ASSLBs even after 600 cycles, thus the common voltage decay of the Li-rich material is also significantly reduced. These new discoveries demonstrate the critical role of interface design for achieving prolonged cycling stability of lithium-rich cathode materials.

Therefore, tremendous efforts have been carried out to find the origin of these issues. It was found that the unstable electrode/electrolyte interphase and continuous parasitic interfacial reactions upon cycling played a key role in capacity loss and voltage decay. 2,8-10 In order to activate the oxygen redox of lithium-rich layered materials, the charging cut-off potential is relatively high (more than 4.3 V vs. Li/Li + ) and outside the electrochemical window of typical liquid organic electrolytes, resulting in continuous oxidative decomposition of the electrolytes. 10-12 Moreover, the highly delithiated cathodes themselves are also chemically unstable, forming a thick cathode electrolyte interphase (CEI) layer with the liquid electrolyte. 13 Besides, acidification of the electrolyte during the cycling process due to the formation of hydrofluoric acid leads to transition metal dissolution and corrosion from the cathode particle surface, accelerating structural degradation and leading to voltage and capacity decay. 8 In particular, the continuous oxygen loss during cycling is closely related to the unstable electrode/electrolyte interface. Many investigations have shown that oxygen loss in the form of gas released from the lattice of the material resulting in the formation vacancies and pores in the particles. 14-16 In addition, oxygen diffusion pathways nearby these pores, which will proliferate and extend during cycles in the LIBs, accelerating the structural degradation, further oxygen loss, and voltage fade. 2

To solve the interfacial problems of lithium-rich layered materials with liquid electrolytes, the use of solid electrolytes (SEs) for constructing a stable and passivating interphase becomes a sensible choice, benefiting from impermeably physical characteristic of the solid itself. 17 Among various types of SEs, the sulfide-based inorganic solid electrolytes have attracted everincreasing attention for all-solid-state lithium batteries (ASSLBs) owing to their high ionic conductivities at room temperature ( e.g. , Li7P3S11: 17 mS cm /C0 1 , Li10GeP2S12: 12 mS cm /C0 1 ), 18-20 which is comparable to the organic liquid electrolytes (1-10 mS cm /C0 1 ). 21 Due to their deformable mechanical properties, sulfide-based solid electrolytes are also easily processed into batteries just by pressing the material at room temperature. 22-24 These advantages make sulfide-based SEs as one of the most promising SE candidates for the commercialization of high-performance ASSLBs. Unfortunately, based on the narrow electrochemical window of sulfide-based SEs, ASSLBs still face severe interfacial issues if it is matched with high-voltage cathode materials (such as LiCoO2, LiNi1 /C0 x /C0 y Mn x Co y O2, etc. ), 25,26 eventually resulting in unsatisfactory cycle life. These issues include the interfacial side-reactions of sulfide SEs, mutual diffusion of non-Li elements and space-charge layer formation. 27,28 To overcome these problems, a great variety of coating materials have been utilized to modify the surface of cathode or SE, such as LiNbO3, Li4Ti5O12, and Li2MoO4, etc. 29-31 Among them, coated-LiCoO2 (LCO) and LiNi1 /C0 x /C0 y Mn x Co y O2 (NCM) have achieved acceptable electrochemical performance, e.g. , Li2WO4-LCO/Li6PS5Cl, LiZr2(PO4)3-LCO/Li6PS5Cl, LiNbO3NCM811/Li10SnP2S12, etc. , 32-34 but most are limited to less than 180 mA h g /C0 1 due to the material's own capacity limitation. Therefore, it is appealing to apply high-capacity lithium-rich cathode materials in ASSLBs to improve their practical energy density.

Nevertheless, there is still lack of investigation on the electrochemical properties of these lithium-rich cathode materials in ASSLBs. Only Kenji et al. developed a novel amorphous Li2Ru0.8S0.2O3.2 cathode material with a high reversible capacity of about 270 mA h g /C0 1 . They cleverly avoid the use of solid electrolyte additive in the cathode by using the good ductility and conductivity of Li2Ru0.8S0.2O3.2 to construct favorable interfaces. However, the cathode formed without solid electrolyte additive also results to the requirement of high operating temperature (100 1 C) and poor rate capability. 35 The challenge to further improve the electrochemical performance and decrease the operating temperature by enhancing the ionic conductivity of the lithium-rich layered oxide cathodes remains. Introduction of sulfide electrolyte to the composite cathodes has been proved to be an effective strategy to increasing the ionic conductivity of the cathodes. 36 Thus, the elegant construction of stable interfaces with favorable ionic conductivity between lithium-rich layered oxide cathode and SEs needs some novel strategies and new ways to explore.

Among the lithium-rich layered oxide cathode materials, Li2RuO3 (LRO), an intriguing Li-rich material, has been extensively studied in traditional lithium-ion batteries using liquid electrolytes. The reversible Ru/O redox reactions can donate sufficient charge compensation together for the Li-ion extraction and achieve two-electron transfer process with reversible capacity as high as 250 mA h g /C0 1 and high cycling stability. 37-39 In addition, LRO has a comparable layered structure to the 3d Mn-based Li-rich oxide, which has the same honeycomb organized Li and TM ions within the TM layer. 40-42 It also exhibits the common dynamic features and shares some common drawbacks of lithium-rich materials, such as voltage decay, voltage hysteresis, continuous parasitic interfacial reactions, etc. 43 Therefore, it's suitable as a model material to aid in mechanistic understanding of the oxygen redox activities underlying Li-rich materials. Many researchers have used LRO as a model to investigate the composition-structure-electrochemical properties relationship, electrochemical reaction mechanism, and tuning the reversibility of oxygen redox, achieving fruitful research results. 37,44-48

In this work, LRO was selected as the cathode material to fabricate ASSLBs with sulfide-based SE to explore the interfacial properties between LRO and sulfide solid electrolytes, and the stability of the anionic redox reaction in ASSLBs. Here, we demonstrated for the first time the feasibility of using SE as a prospective alternative strategy to create a stable and passivated CEI, which leads to outstanding electrochemical performance. LRO-based ASSLBs show a high reversible capacity of 257 mA h g /C0 1 at 0.05C and excellent cycling stability with 90% capacity retention after 1000 cycles at 1C. A comprehensive experimental analysis combined with density functional theory (DFT) calculations demonstrates the passivating properties of the interface between LRO and sulfide solid electrolytes, which is beneficial to maintain reversible oxygen redox reaction during long-term cycling, and mitigate the voltage decay, thus give rise to superior electrochemical performance.

1

5

|

3

4

7

1

## Results and discussion

## Electrochemical performance

Structure and morphology of LRO particles are shown in Fig. S1 (ESI † ), which are consistent with previous studies. 40,49 The X-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern of LRO is shown in Fig. S1a (ESI † ). All the peaks can be perfectly matched to the monoclinic with C 2/ c space group. The scanning electron microscopy (SEM) image shows that LRO particles possess a uniform particle size of about 1 to 2 m m, as displayed in Fig. S1b (ESI † ). The transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image (Fig. S1c and d, ESI † ) shows clear lattice fringes with a lattice spacing of 0.484 nm, corresponding to the (002) planes of the monoclinic LRO.

To obtain high-performance ASSLBs, Li7P3S11 (LPS) was used as bulk electrolyte, and Li-In was selected as the anode. Assynthesized uncoated LRO particles were mixed with Li6PS5Cl (LPSCl) and acetylene black (AB) for the cathode. A schematic diagram of the LRO-LPSCl-AB|LPS|Li-In ASSLBs is shown in Fig. 1a. Before electrochemical cycling, the cells were formationly cycled at a low current density of 0.05C ( B 10 mA g /C0 1 ) between 2.0 V and 4.3 V ( vs. Li/Li + ) at 60 1 C for 10 cycles (Fig. 1b). It can deliver a high first-cycle discharge capacity of 220 mA h g /C0 1 and coulombic efficiency (CE) of 84.2%. After formation cycling, the reversible specific capacity increases to 257 mA h g /C0 1 with a CE of 99.6% at the 10th cycle, which is comparable to the electrochemical performance of LRO in liquid batteries. 40,50,51 Upon increasing the current density to 0.1C ( B 20 mA g /C0 1 ), the cell exhibits an initial discharge capacity of 230 mA h g /C0 1 and 98.2% capacity retention after 100 cycles (Fig. 1c, Fig. S3a, ESI † ). Furthermore, Fig. 1d, Fig. S4 (ESI † ) shows the rate capabilities of ASSLBs at 0.05C, 0.2C, 0.5C, 1C, 1.5C, 2C and 5C. Even at the highest current density of 5C, LRO exhibits a specific capacity up to 98 mA h g /C0 1 . When the current returns to 0.05C, the capacity of LRO can be fully recovered to 250 mA h g /C0 1 , remaining stable in subsequent cycles. These results demonstrated excellent rate performance of LRO in ASSLBs. More importantly, LRO-LPSClAB|LPS|Li-In ASSLBs can de deliver a higher initial discharge capacity of 210 mA h g /C0 1 at 1C ( B 200 mA g /C0 1 ) in Fig. 1e, Fig. S3b (ESI † ). After 1000 cycles, the reversible capacity still has 189 mA h g /C0 1 , retaining B 90% initial capacity, and the CE is always close to 100%. The shape of the voltage profiles did not change significantly during cycling, only with a slight voltage fade. On the contrary, the LRO cell with liquid electrolyte exhibits severe capacity and voltage decay accompanied by a gradual decrease of coulombic efficiency, and capacity retention is only 48.7% after 995 cycles (Fig. S5, ESI † ). Moreover, the electrochemical performance of LRO ASSLBs at 30 1 C is shown in Fig. S6 (ESI † ). As can be seen, the LRO-LPSCl-AB|LPS|Li-In ASSLBs can also deliver high capacity and excellent cycling stability even at 30 1 C. During the formation cycles, the discharge capacity increases from the initial 175.6 mA h g /C0 1 to the maximumof 221.8 mA h g /C0 1 . And after 200 cycles, it still maintained a high reversible capacity of 205.6 mA h g /C0 1 . In order to better emphasize the excellent electrochemical performance, Fig. 1f compares our results and the latest electrochemical performance for bare and coated LCO, NCM in state-of-the-art sulfide-based

|

ASSLBs (see the more detailed comparison of electrochemical performance including cell design and operating conditions in Table S1, ESI † ). It is observed that the performance of LROLPSCl-AB|LPS|Li-In ASSLB is more attractive in term of higher reversible capacity, as well as long-term cycling stability. To clarify the working principle of LRO-LPSCl-AB|LPS|Li-In ASSLB cycling performance, we will present a comprehensive analysis of composite cathodes in structure and electrode-electrolyte interface in the following part.

## Structural evolution

In situ X-ray diffraction (XRD) was performed to monitor the structural evolution of LRO in ASSLBs for the initial and second cycles, as shown in Fig. 2. It should be pointed out that the initial cycle here refers to the first cycle of the formation cycling, and the following characterizations are all counted like this. To emphasize the structural evolution, some representative points (traces a-h in corresponding voltage profile) were highlighted in the direct observation XRD patterns, and the contour plots of LRO (002) diffraction peak was presented with the color depth representing the diffraction intensity. It can be seen that a set of diffraction peaks corresponding to LPSCl SE can be observed at 25.5 1 , 30 1 , 31.4 1 , 44.9 1 and 52.4 1 , which did not change during cycling, inferring the good structure stability of bulk LPSCl. 23 Before 3.74 V, the LRO transformed from pristine monoclinic C 2/ c phase (point a) to Li deficient C 2/ c phase (Li1.4RuO3, point b), with the (002) diffraction peak slightly shifted to a low angle. 41 On further oxidation to about 4.05 V (point c), the Li deficient C 2/ c phase changed to the R % 3 phase (Li0.9RuO3). 52 Then, it was observed that no new phase was formed and only the continuous shifting of the (002) peak to a higher angle revealed a solid-solution reaction from 4.05 V to the end of charge at 4.3 V (point d). 40 Subsequently, two transitions ( R % 3 phase and Li deficient C 2/ c phase) were observed with further discharging to 2.0 V (point e) and the second cycle (point f, g). 40 As expected, these results with multiple phase transitions of LRO during ASSLBs charging and discharging could be analogous to the LIBs system reported in literature, 39,48 indicating that changes in electrolyte composition have little effect on the structural evolution of LRO. Replacing the liquid electrolyte with SEs, the most direct impact on the cell originates from the interface, suggesting that the interface features between LRO and LPSCl have a crucial role in maintaining the ultra-long cycle stability. Therefore, we will shift research focus towards structural evolution to the electrodeelectrolyte interface.

## The electrochemical stability of electrode-electrolyte interface

In order to clarify the interfacial compatibility between LRO and LPSCl, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was conducted to monitor the interfacial evolution. The surfaces of all the samples were cleaned by Ar + sputtering firstly to eliminate the surface contamination. Fig. 3a, b and Fig. S7 (ESI † ) show the XPS spectra of the S 2p and P 2p for LPSCl SE and the cycled composite cathodes at different states, respectively. The S 2p

Fig. 1 Electrochemical characterization. (a) The schematic diagram of the ASSLBs. In the composite positive electrode layer, the LRO (blue balls) and AB (little black balls) are surrounded by the LPSCl matrix (light brown cuboid). LPS was used in the bulk electrolyte layer, and Li-In was selected as the anode. (b) Voltage profiles of LRO-LPSCl-AB|LPS|Li-In ASSLBs formation cycling from the 1st to the 10th cycle at 0.05C, and cells in (c) and (e) are tested after the formation cycle. (c) Cycling performance of LRO in ASSLBs at 0.1C. (d) Rate capability of LRO ASSLBs. (e) Cycling stability curves of LRO in ASSLBs at 1C. All cells are cycled between 2.0 and 4.3 V ( vs. Li/Li + ) at 60 1 C. (f) Comparison of electrochemical performance of LRO with currently prevailing layered oxide cathode at the state-of-the-art ASSLBs reported in the literatures. A more detailed comparison of electrochemical performance including cell design and operating conditions are displayed in Table S1 (ESI † ).

spectrum of argyrodite LPSCl consists of a doublet with S 2p 3/2 at 161.3 eV, and an extra doublet at 160 eV can be attributed to Li2S, which comes from the residual reactants during the synthesis of LPSCl. 53,54 At the second fully discharged state (2.0 V), to fit the spectrum a new doublet at 163.3 eV is required, which can be assigned to P-S-P of polysulfide, indicating the slight decomposition of LPSCl SE. Afterwards, the S 2p spectrum spreads to higher binding energy after 50 cycles, accompanied by an increase of the relative contents of the polysulfide signals at 163.3 eV (P-S-P) and 162 eV (P Q S). 55,56 Moreover, S 2p peaks after 200 cycles show additional peaks at higher binding energy which can be assigned to a trace amount of sulfite (167 eV) and large amount of sulfate (169 eV). 26 However, after 400 (Fig. S7, ESI † ) or 1000 cycles, the intensities of by-products peaks don't increase any more, suggesting the formation of a stable and passivating electrode-electrolyte interphase. Analogous to the S 2p spectra, also here, the P 2p spectrum of the sample mentioned above show similar signal evolution.

Fig. 2 Structural evolution of LRO in ASSLBs. Corresponding voltage profile of LRO in ASSLBs and in situ XRD analysis of LRO during the first and second charge-discharge processes in ASSLBs. The contour plots with the color depth representing the diffraction intensity. The initial cycle here refers to the first cycle of the formation process, and the following characterizations are all counted like this.

Compared with the P 2p spectrum of LPSCl (131.7 eV), the spectra of the cycled electrodes show extra doublets at 132.7 eV and 133.9 eV, which can be assigned as phosphorouscontaining polysulfide and phosphate respectively. 55 In the corresponding electrochemical process, the P 2p spectrum also supports the conclusions drawn from the S 2p spectrum regarding the gradually stable electrode-electrolyte interphase after 200 cycles. Therefore, the XPS analysis provides evidence that SE decomposition arises during the electrochemical process, and then the composition and content of the byproducts ( e.g. , polysulfide, phosphate, sulfates, and sulfites) stabilize gradually after multiple cycles, forming a stable and passivating interphase between LRO and SE. This is in agreement with excellent capacity retention of LRO-LPSCl-AB|LPS|Li-In ASSLBs.

In addition, Time-of-Flight Secondary Ion Mass Spectrometry (ToF-SIMs) measurements were carried out to give more insight into the decomposition reactions for the initial state and the electrode after 1000 cycles. As shown in Fig. S8 (ESI † ), the count number of the by-product fragments increase significantly for the cycled sample compared to the initial state, including PO2 /C0 , PO3 /C0 , PS2O /C0 , SO /C0 , S2 /C0 , LiCl2 /C0 , RuS3 /C0 , which can be assigned to phosphates, sulfates/sulfites, polysulfides, LiCl and transition metal sulfides and are consistent with XPS results. 29,57 To observe structure and thickness evolutions of the CEI layer on prolonged cycling, TEM images were collected for pristine state and the electrodes after 100 and 1000 cycles, respectively (Fig. S9, ESI † ). After 100 cycles, a uniform and amorphous CEI film with a thickness of 3-5 nm can be observed on the LRO surface, then the thickness remains almost unchanged after 1000 cycles. Combining the above results, a stable electrode-electrolyte

|

interphase is formed at the LRO/SE interface during LRO ASSLBs cycling.

To evaluate the stability of the electrode-electrolyte interphases during long-term cycling, operando electrochemical impedance spectroscopies (EIS) were performed (Fig. 3c). Instead of steadily increasing throughout the cycling process as in LIBs (Fig. S10, ESI † ), the impedance gradually decreases at first and then stabilizes after 250 cycles, resulting in excellent cycling stability of the ASSLBs. Subsequently, all spectra were fitted with an equivalent circuit model to quantify the interface resistance of each state. A typical impedance spectra model (Nyquist plot) of the ASSLBs during cycling is shown in Fig. S11 (ESI † ). The high frequency semicircle corresponds to the grain boundary resistance of the SE ( R SE Gb, 1 B 0.1 MHz), the middle frequency semicircle relates to the SE/LRO interface resistance ( R SE/LRO, B kHz) and the relative lower frequency should be SE/ the anode interface resistance ( R SE/Li-In , B 1 Hz). 58,59 Fig. 3d depicts the value of corresponding resistance by fitting the impedance data. It shows that the R SE Gb and the bulk resistance of electrolyte ( R SE Bulk) have not increased obviously even after 700 cycles, indicating the great stability of the bulk solid electrolyte material. R SE/Li-In fluctuates slightly in early cycles, but remains below 20 O thereafter, implying a stable interface between LPS and Li-In alloy. The most significant change in impedance occurs at the interface between the active material and the electrolyte. R SE/LRO decreases rapidly during the first 250 cycles, from 69 O to 43 O , and then gradually stabilizes in the subsequent cycles. It's worth noting that, the SE/LRO interface resistance ( R SE/LRO) contains both the CEI resistance ( R CEI) and the charge transfer resistance ( R Ct ). R CEI and R Ct are

Fig. 3 The characteristic of the electrode-electrolyte interphases. S 2p (a) and P 2p (b) XPS spectra of LPSCl SE and composite cathodes after 2nd, 50th, 200th, 1000th discharging. (c) Nyquist plot of the impedance spectrum during the cycling. (d) The evolution of the above four resistances obtained by fitting the impedance spectra during cycling. R SE,bulk , R SE,Gb , R SE/LRO and R SE/Li-In represent volume resistance of the solid electrolyte, grain boundary resistance of the SE, the SE/LRO interface resistance, and SE/Li-In interface resistance, respectively. The equivalent circuit model shows on the top part. (e) The mutual reaction energy of the interface between LPSCl and LRO/LCO. (f) The molar fraction of the species with band gap little than 0.5 eV in the phase equilibrium at full-lithiated state of the LRO/LCO/NCM and at Li chemical potential m Li corresponding to the initial charge voltage.

indistinguishable, since there is only one semicircle observed for the SE/LRO interfacial resistance. The decrease of R SE/LRO during the first 250 cycles maybe attributed to the decrease of the charge transfer resistance ( R Ct), which can be caused by an improvement in the interfacial solid-solid contact under the stack pressure during cycling. In LIBs, a thick cathode electrolyte interphase layer is generated during repeated charging/discharging process. The overgrown CEI will prevent the diffusion of Li ions and thus deteriorate the electrochemical performance. On the contrary, LRO in ASSLBs forms a stable and passivating thin interphase layer between LRO and SE, thus the interfacial resistance retains low and stable during the long-term cycling.

To obtain further insights into the formation of the passivating electrode-electrolyte interface layer between LRO and LPSCl, a phase equilibrium analysis of this pseudo-binary component at the fully-lithiated state of cathode and at Li chemical potential m Li , was carried out and compared to a phase equilibrium analysis of conventional layered cathodes such as LCO and NCM, as shown in Fig. 3e, Fig. S12 and Table S2 (ESI † ). It is found that the LRO/LPSCl interface is thermodynamically unstable and undergoes spontaneous decomposition reactions just like the interface of LCO/LPSCl and NCM/LPSCl. In addition, from the decomposition products listed in Table S2 (ESI † ), it can be found that phosphates, sulfates and transition metal sulfides

are formed via chemical and electrochemical reactions between LRO and LPSCl, which is also consistent with the XPS and ToFSIMs results. In general, an electronically insulating and ionically conductive interfacial layer can form a stable and passivating interface between cathode and SEs. 34,60,61 Thus, the mole fraction of phases formed in the phase equilibrium with band gap smaller than 0.5 eV for the LRO/LPSCl interface, which are likely to be an electronic conductor existing at interphase layer, are counted in detail as shown in Fig. 3f. As a comparison, the phase equilibrium between LPSCl and LCO/NCM was also investigated systematically. It can be found that the mole fraction of electron conducting species ( i.e. with low band gap) formed at the LCO/NCM-LPSCl interface is sufficient (LCO: 16.4, 16.6%, NCM: 17.5, 33.6% at fulllithiated and m Li , respectively) to make it a mixed ionic and electronic conducting (MIEC) interphase layer, which is regarded a key factor leading to the degradation of battery cycling performance. 62,63 By contrast, no electronic conducting species are formed at the interphase between LPSCl and LRO at the fully lithiated state of LRO, indicating that this interphase has the ability to passivate the electrode-electrolyte interface achieving long-term cycling stability.

The morphological evolution of the cathodes composite interface for the pristine and after 100 cycles were examined by cross-sectional SEM and corresponding energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) elemental mapping in Fig. 4. Fig. 4a reveals that LRO particles (light grey color) are surrounded by a matrix consisting of LPSCl and acetylene black particles (dark grey color) in the pristine cathode. After 100 cycles, no significant crack formation is observed and the initial particle morphology is maintained in the cathodes composite in Fig. 4b. Fig. 4c-h show the SEM-EDS mapping results of the elemental distribution of Ru (Fig. 4d, g) and S (Fig. 4e, h) of the pristine and cycled cathode, it can be clearly observed that Ru (from the cathode), and S (from sulfide electrolyte) elements were conformal distributed in cathode side and sulfide electrolyte side even after 100 cycling, indicating good interfacial stability between the cathode and sulfide SE. It was reported that the S could easily diffuse into NCM particles in ASSLBs, which led to continuous interfacial

Fig. 4 The morphological evolution of the cathodes composite interface during electrochemical process. Cross-sectional SEM images of the electrodes at the pristine (a) and after 100 cycles (b). Cross-sectional SEM images of larger magnification (c) and corresponding Ru (blue, (d)) and S (orange, (e)) maps of the region (c) of the electrodes at the pristine. Cross-sectional SEM images of larger magnification (f) and corresponding Ru (blue, (g)) and S (orange, (h)) maps of the region (f) of the electrodes after 100 cycles.

|

reaction and deterioration of electrochemical performance. 27 On the contrary, no apparent element inter-diffusion is observed in this system and the interface between Ru and S remains sharp. Therefore, a stable interphase is formed between LRO and LPSCI, which inhibits further side reactions, consistent with the DFT results.

## Reversible oxygen redox reactions

As mentioned above, ASSLBs made of LRO and LPSCl SE can achieve outstanding reversible capacities of 257 mA h g /C0 1 . To fully understand the electrochemical reaction mechanism of LROin ASSLBs, it is necessary to analyze the charge compensation mechanism of cathode materials. It is worth noting that the theoretical capacity expected by the charge compensation of cationic Ru 4+ /Ru 5+ redox species in LRO is only 164 mA h g /C0 1 , which indicates that the extra capacity in ASSLBs are from other redox reactions. 35 Based on the XPS results, the electrochemical decomposition of SE possibly contributes to the capacity of the ASSLBs. To test this, the LPSCl-AB composite electrodes were prepared and the corresponding electrochemical performance were characterized under the same test conditions as LRO ASSLBs (Fig. S13, ESI † ). The results show that the contribution from LPSCl decomposition to the overall battery capacity is negligible (less than 3 mA h g /C0 1 ), thus anionic reactions may provide these extra capacities.

Here, mapping of resonant inelastic X-ray scattering (mRIXs) of the oxygen (O) K-edge provides the direct evidence regarding reversible oxygen redox of LRO during the long-term cycling of the ASSLB. 64 Previous studies have shown that lattice oxidized oxygen has two coexisting fingerprint features on the RIXS map at the charged states: (i) a sharp feature around 531 eV excitation and 524 eV emission energy, (ii) a low-energy-loss feature close on the elastic line at the same excitation energy. 51,65 Fig. 5a and b display the full O K-edge RIXS maps of the LRO electrode at pristine LRO electrode and at 11th cycle charged to 4.3 V, respectively. The two characteristics features of the above-mentioned appear on the 11th delithiation, highlighted by the red arrows and the yellow circles in Fig. 5b, respectively. The spectroscopic results confirm the existence of the reversible oxygen redox in LRO ASSLBs. Moreover, further comparison of the RIXS cuts at 531 eV excitation energy of all samples at the fully charged state and their corresponding discharges state (light gray) are shown in Fig. 5c. The two characteristic features representing the oxidized lattice oxygen in the charged states

Fig. 5 Influence of stable electrode/electrolyte interface on reversible oxygen redox reactions. O-K mRIXS of LRO electrodes at the pristine (a) and upon 11th charge states (b). The red arrows and the yellow circle indicated the features of anionic oxygen redox. (c) The RIXs spectra extracted at 531 eV excitation energy of several samples in the fully charged states and corresponding discharges states (light gray plot). The intensity in the red arrow and the blue coil corresponds to the oxidized oxygen triggered by oxygen redox reaction at the charged state. ''1 Ch.'' represents first charged state. (d) Comparison of the discharge curves of LRO in LIBs and ASSLBs from cycles 11 to 200, respectively. (e) Comparison of the average voltage of LRO in LIBs and ASSLBs at 0.1C cycled between 2.0-4.3 V. (f) Schematic illustration of the interfacial passivating mechanism and effects of the reversible oxygen redox.

1

5

|

3

4

7

are clearly marked out (red arrows and blue coil). It should be noted that the features representing oxidized oxygen are absent first two cycles (activation process), and start to appear at the 11th charged state and remain until 600 cycles. This suggests the reversible oxygen redox maintains during the long-term cycling of the LRO ASSLBs.

The stable LRO/SE interface passivated by the interphase does a great job of keeping oxygen redox activity of the electrode material, as shown schematically in Fig. 5f. It is reported that lithium-rich cathode materials are subject to irreversible oxygen release during long-term cycling resulting in vacancies and large pores formation. 2,14-16 Furthermore, the microcracks evolution in LRO particles induced by the continuous migration of oxygen vacancies and transition metal ions has been reported in the literature and observed in this study (Fig. S14, ESI † ). 66 Inside these cracks, the electrolyte reacts and damages the structure, which aggravates the oxygen loss. Unlike conventional liquid electrolytes, the SE does not penetrate into the pores and cracks, meaning fewer parasitic interfacial reactions and oxygen loss. In addition, the CEI layer does not grow continuously during long-term cycling due to the passivation features of the LRO/LPSCl interphase, providing fast ion conduction and thus assuring the fast kinetics of the anionic redox reaction. The oxygen redox is thus maintained for at least 600 cycles and a super-stable electrochemical performance is achieved.

In addition, it was demonstrated that oxygen loss played a critical role in voltage fade. 2 Fig. 5d shows a comparison diagram of the normalized discharge curves at the 11th and 200th cycles of LRO in ASSLBs and LIBs at 0.1C between 2.04.3 V. The voltage drops of the normalized discharge curve of the 200th cycle compared with the 11 th cycle in ASSLBs is obvious less than LIBs. Furthermore, Fig. 5e shows that the average voltage decay for ASSLBs (300 mV) after 200 cycles is significantly less than LIBs (700 mV). Therefore, benefiting from the long-term reversible redox of the lattice oxygen of LRO in ASSLBs, the inherent voltage decay of lithium-rich materials has also been greatly alleviated. In order to assess the effect of a stable interface on the structure, ex situ XRD patterns were collected for LRO electrodes in ASSLBs and LIBs at pristine and after 175 cycles, respectively (Fig. S15, ESI † ). After 175 cycles, no matter in ASSLBs or LIBs, the (002) diffraction peak is severely weakened and broadened, which is attributed to the effect of accumulated microstrain of LRO during the electrochemical process. At the same time, the superlattice peaks (between 20 1 and 23 1 ) that can signify the stacking of ordered transition metal layers in layered oxides disappear. 49 It is reported the correlation of local disorderinduced voltage decay with microstrain, which may explain why the voltage decay of LRO in ASSLBs is not fully inhibited. 37 Moreover, a new peak at 18.9 1 has emerged in LIBs after 175 cycles, highlighted by the heart symbol, indicating the degradation of the layered structure within the prolonged cycling process. In contrast, no new peak is found in ASSLBs after 175 cycles, suggesting the improved structural integrity of LRO cycled in ASSLBs.

## Conclusions

In this work, we successfully fabricated a sulfide-based allsolid-state batteries by using LRO and LPSCl, achieving highly remarkable reversible capacities and cycling performance. XPS and cross-section SEM characterizations combined with DFT calculations, reveal that the properties of interfacial reaction products play a critical role in the interface stability in ASSLBs. The electronic insulating phases formed between LRO cathode and sulfide electrolyte is passivating against further electrochemical oxidation of the electrolytes and stabilizes the interface. EIS results confirm the formation of a stable interphase with a stable interfacial impedance during long-term cycling. Moreover, the reversible oxygen redox activity can be well-maintained during long-term cycling as revealed by mRIXS, which is beneficial to the reversibly exploit the anionic redox reaction and effectively alleviate the voltage decay, thus achieve outstanding electrochemical performance. Our discovery offers a good guideline for rationally design the lithium-rich cathode/sulfide electrolyte interface toward high energy density ASSLBs.

## Experimental

## Synthesis

LRO samples were prepared by conventional solid-state reaction as previously reported. Stoichiometric amounts of RuO2 (SigmaAldrich 99.9%) and Li2CO3 (Sigma-Aldrich 99.0%) with a 10 wt% excess were mixed by using ball-milling at a rate of 400 rpm for 4 h, and then the obtained precursor was heated at 900 1 C for 12 h with a slow heating rate in air. LPSCl samples were prepared by Li2S (Alfa Aesar, 99.9%), P2S5 (Sigma-Aladdin, 99%) and LiCl (Sigma-Aladdin, 99.9%) in the prescriptive molar ratio mixing at 300 rpm for 24 h. The mixture was then calcined at 550 1 C for 6 h under Ar atmosphere. Similarly, to synthesize LPS, the same Li2S and P2S5 as raw materials were ball milled at the same speed and time. Then the calcined conditions are 210 1 C for 3 h and 250 1 C for 1 h with a heating rate of 1 1 C min /C0 1 in Ar atmosphere.

## Cell assembly and electrochemical characterization

In this study, LRO without any modification treatment were mixed with LPSCl and AB as cathode materials. LPS was used in the electrolyte layer, and Li-In was selected as the anode. The LRO-LPSCl-AB composite cathode was prepared and ground by hand mixing the as prepared LRO powder with LPSCl and AB with a weight ratio of 60 : 38: 2 in an agate mortar for 60 min. ASSLBs fabricated using LRO-LPSCl-AB composite as the cathode, LPS as the solid electrolyte, and Li-In alloy as the anode. For the assembly of LRO-LPSCl-AB|LPS|Li-In cells, a mass of 100 mg of the LPS SE powder was first placed into a polycarbonate tube with a 10 mm diameter, followed by cold pressing under 300 MPa to form the solid electrolyte layer with thicknesses of about 750 m m. After that, a total of 5.2 mg of LRO-LPSCl-AB composite powder was homogeneously distributed on one side of the as-formed LPS SE layer and then pressed together under 360 MPa. The mass loading of the LRO active material is 4 mg cm /C0 2 . Li-In alloy foil with a molar ratio of 3:7 as the anode composite was attached to the

other side of the electrolyte by pressing under 120 MPa. All cell processes were carried out in an argon-filled glove box. The ionic conductivity of LPSCl and LPS shows 2.4 /C2 10 /C0 3 S cm /C0 1 and 1.2 /C2 10 /C0 3 S cm /C0 1 at room temperature (Fig. S2, ESI † ), respectively, which is similar to the reported values. 23,67 In addition, the LPSClAB composite cathode was also ground by hand mixing with a weight ratio of 70:30, and assembled into LPSCl-AB|LPS|Li-In cells using the same method mentioned above. The 2025-Typecoin-LIBs with lithium metal as the anode and 1 M LiPF6 in ethylene carbonate (EC) and ethyl methyl carbonate (EMC) (3/7 by wt) as an electrolyte. The prepared LRO powder was mixed with acetylene black and poly(vinylidene fluoride) at a weight ratio of 8:1:1 in N -methyl pyrrolidone solvent, then the slurry was cast on an Al current collector and then dried under vacuum at 110 1 C12 h as the cathode.

Galvanostatic charge-discharge tests of the ASSLBs and LIBs were conducted on the land battery test system (LAND CT-2001A, Wuhan, China) at different current densities (based on 1C = 200 mA g /C0 1 ) under 60 1 C or RT. The voltage window was set as 1.4-3.7 V vs. Li-In (2.0-4.3 V vs. Li/Li + ). EIS was recorded on the Autolab PGSTA302 electrochemical workstation (Eco Chemie, Netherland) in a frequency range of 10 mHz to 1 MHz with a signal amplitude of 50 mV.

## Characterization

XRD was collected on Rigaku Corporation (Japan) equipped with Cu Ka radiation ( l = 1.5406 Å), and in situ XRD patterns were carried out on a Bruker D8 Discover X-ray diffractometer equipped with a Cu Target X-ray tube and a VANTEC-500 planar detector. A specially designed coin cell with holes for beam pass was employed for in situ XRD testing. The cell was cycled at a low current density (0.05C) by using the Neware battery test system during the experiment. XPS measurements were conducted using K-Alpha + (Thermo Scientific) with a monochromatic Al Ka source (1486.6 eV) at 15 KV and 15 mA. ToF-SIMS tests was performed by using PHI nano TOF II Time-of-Flight SIMS instrument. The sample were detected by using Bi3 ++ ions with an energy of 30 keV and an ion current of 2 nA. The morphology of the synthesized LRO powder was characterized by SEM (MERLIN Compact ZEISS, Germany) and TEM (Tecnai F30, Philips-FEI, Netherlands). For cross-sectional SEM (JEOL, JSM-7900F, Japan) and EDX observations, the sample was prepared by a cross section polisher (JEOL, IB-19520CCP, Japan). All samples were collected in Ar-atmospheres and transferred into the SEM without exposure to air. mRIXS was collected at the high-efficiency iRIXS end station at beamline 8.0.1 of the Advanced Light Source (ALS) at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (LBNL). An excitation energy step size of 0.2 eV was chosen for all the RIXS mappings. The linear polarization of the incident beam is parallel to the scattering plan. 68 The resolution of the excitation energy and emission energy are about 0.35 eV and 0.25 eV at 500-550 eV, respectively. The recorded spectra were measured from the side of electrode facing the current collector and then plotted in color scale. The TiO2 was used as reference sample of a series O K-edge spectra. All the data have been normalized to the beam flux measured by a clean gold mesh upper stream of the end station. 65

## Phase equilibrium analysis

The chemical and electrochemical stability of the interfaces exiting in the composite cathode were systematically analyzed by the scheme proposed by Mo et al. 69 The details were described the ESI. † Based on the scheme proposed by Mo et al. , the interface can be regarded as a pseudo-binary composition consisted by A and B.

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where, x is the fraction of A, C A and C B is the component of A and B. The total energy of this pseudo-binary composition can be described as the liner combination of A and B.

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where, E interface(A, B, x ), is the total energy, E (A) and E (B) and is the energy of ground state of A and B. The decomposition energy, D E D(phase), is described as follows

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

E eq (C) and E (phase) is the energy of phase equilibria and phase. The phase equilibria at the composition C corresponding to the energy minimum E eq (C) were identified by comparing the energy of all relevant phases in their compositional space. The chemical stability of A and B can be evaluated by the decomposition energy calculated from the equation as follows:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

The mutual reaction energy of A and B, D E D,mutual (A, B, x ), is calculated as:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

The electrochemical stability can also be estimated by inducing the correction term of the electrode potential + which considered as a part of the Li chemical potential m Li .

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where m 0 Li is the chemical potential of Li metal, and the applied potential + was referenced to the Li metal.

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

## Mole fraction of the e-conductor exiting in the interphase layer

The products with band gap smaller than 0.5 eV might be an econductor exit in the interphase, which can induce the electrochemical reaction between SE and cathode. Hence, the mole fraction ( f ) of e-conductive products, xC , in the total products is calculated as follows,

o

.

S

c

v

i

g

y

E

n

e

r

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

according to the assumption in the MP analysis above a + b = 1. Here the band gaps of C and D are smaller and bigger than 0.5 eV, respectively.

Since the different mixed ratio of SE in the pseudo-binary composition consisted by SE and cathode, there exist several possible phase equilibriums between sulfide SE and cathode at different mixed ratios. The mole fraction of e-conductive phase is the average of all these possible phase equilibria.

## Author contributions

Conceptualization: Y. W., K. Z., Z. G. and Y. Y.; Data curation: Y. W., F. R., Y. H., Z. L, X. Z., Z. W, W. Y., M. Z. and M. L.; Formal Analysis: Y. W., K. Z., Y. H., Z. L., and Z. G.; Funding acquisition: Z. G. and Y. Y.; Methodology: Y. W. and K. Z.; Project administration: Z. G. and Y. Y.; Resources: Z. G., Y. Y., L. Z. and W. L. Y.; Software: F. R.; Supervision: Z. G. and Y. Y.; Validation: Y. W., X. Z., and Z. L.; Visualization: Y. W., K. Z. and F. R.; Writing - original draft: Y. W. and K. Z.; Writing - review &amp; editing: Y. W., K. Z., Y. H., Z. L., C. B., Z. G. and Y. Y.; Y. W. and K. Z. contributed equally to this work. All authors contributed to the discussion and provided feedback on the manuscript.

## Conflicts of interest

There are no conflicts to declare.

## Acknowledgements

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grants No. 21875196, 21935009 and 22021001), the National Key R&amp;D Program of China (Grant No. 2021YFB2401800) and the Science and Technology Planning Projects of Fujian Province, China (Grant 2019H0003). Y. Ha and W. L. Yang's work is supported by DOE EERE VTO under the Applied Battery Materials Program, both under contract No. DE-AC02-05CH11231.

## Notes and references

- 1 G. Assat and J.-M. Tarascon, Nat. Energy , 2018, 3 , 373-386.
- 2 E. Hu, X. Yu, R. Lin, X. Bi, J. Lu, S. Bak, K.-W. Nam, H. L. Xin, C. Jaye, D. A. Fischer, K. Amine and X.-Q. Yang, Nat. Energy , 2018, 3 , 690-698.
- 3 J. Lee, D. A. Kitchaev, D. H. Kwon, C. W. Lee, J. K. Papp, Y. S. Liu, Z. Lun, R. J. Clement, T. Shi, B. D. McCloskey, J. Guo, M. Balasubramanian and G. Ceder, Nature , 2018, 556 , 185-190.
- 4 J. Xu, M. Sun, R. Qiao, S. E. Renfrew, L. Ma, T. Wu, S. Hwang, D. Nordlund, D. Su, K. Amine, J. Lu, B. D. McCloskey, W. Yang and W. Tong, Nat. Commun. , 2018, 9 , 947-957.

|

- 5 F. Ning, B. Li, J. Song, Y. Zuo, H. Shang, Z. Zhao, Z. Yu, W. Chu, K. Zhang, G. Feng, X. Wang and D. Xia, Nat. Commun. , 2020, 11 , 4973-4985.
- 6 G. Assat, D. Foix, C. Delacourt, A. Iadecola, R. Dedryvere and J. M. Tarascon, Nat. Commun. , 2017, 8 , 2219-2231.
- 7 D. Eum, B. Kim, S. J. Kim, H. Park, J. Wu, S. P. Cho, G. Yoon, M. H. Lee, S. K. Jung, W. Yang, W. M. Seong, K. Ku, O. Tamwattana, S. K. Park, I. Hwang and K. Kang, Nat. Mater. , 2020, 19 , 419-427.
- 8 W. Zuo, M. Luo, X. Liu, J. Wu, H. Liu, J. Li, M. Winter, R. Fu, W. Yang and Y. Yang, Energy Environ. Sci. , 2020, 13 , 4450-4497.
- 9 S. Hu, Y. Li, Y. Chen, J. Peng, T. Zhou, W. K. Pang, C. Didier, V. K. Peterson, H. Wang, Q. Li and Z. Guo, Adv. Energy Mater. , 2019, 9 , 1901795.
- 10 W. Li, B. Song and A. Manthiram, Chem. Soc. Rev. , 2017, 46 , 3006-3059.
- 11 B. Jiang, J. Li, B. Luo, Q. Yan, H. Li, L. Liu, L. Chu, Y. Li, Q. Zhang and M. Li, J. Energy Chem. , 2021, 60 , 564-571.
- 12 Y. Yue, Y. Ha, R. Giovine, R. Cle ´ment, W. Yang and W. Tong, Chem. Mater. , 2022, 34 , 1524-1532.
- 13 Q. Li, Y. Wang, X. Wang, X. Sun, J. N. Zhang, X. Yu and H. Li, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces , 2020, 12 , 2319-2326.
- 14 B. Qiu, M. Zhang, L. Wu, J. Wang, Y. Xia, D. Qian, H. Liu, S. Hy, Y. Chen, K. An, Y. Zhu, Z. Liu and Y. S. Meng, Nat. Commun. , 2016, 7 , 12108-12118.
- 15 P. Yan, J. Zheng, Z. K. Tang, A. Devaraj, G. Chen, K. Amine, J. G. Zhang, L. M. Liu and C. Wang, Nat. Nanotechnol. , 2019, 14 , 602-608.
- 16 H. C. Shim, D. Kim, D. Shin, S. Hyun, C. S. Woo, T. Yu and J. P. Ahn, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. , 2017, 19 , 1268-1275.
- 17 D. H. Tan, Y.-T. Chen, H. Yang, W. Bao, B. Sreenarayanan, J.-M. Doux, W. Li, B. Lu, S.-Y. Ham and B. Sayahpour, Science , 2021, 373 , 1494-1499.
- 18 N. Kamaya, K. Homma, Y. Yamakawa, M. Hirayama, R. Kanno, M. Yonemura, T. Kamiyama, Y. Kato, S. Hama, K. Kawamoto and A. Mitsui, Nat. Mater. , 2011, 10 , 682-686.
- 19 Y. Seino, T. Ota, K. Takada, A. Hayashi and M. Tatsumisago, Energy Environ. Sci. , 2014, 7 , 627-631.
- 20 C. Wang, J. Liang, Y. Zhao, M. Zheng, X. Li and X. Sun, Energy Environ. Sci. , 2021, 14 , 2577-2619.
- 21 S. H. Jung, U. H. Kim, J. H. Kim, S. Jun, C. S. Yoon, Y. S. Jung and Y. K. Sun, Adv. Energy Mater. , 2019, 10 , 1903360.
- 22 D. H. Kim, Y.-H. Lee, Y. B. Song, H. Kwak, S.-Y. Lee and Y. S. Jung, ACS Energy Lett. , 2020, 5 , 718-727.
- 23 L. Zhou, K.-H. Park, X. Sun, F. Lale `re, T. Adermann, P. Hartmann and L. F. Nazar, ACS Energy Lett. , 2018, 4 , 265-270.
- 24 A. Miura, N. C. Rosero-Navarro, A. Sakuda, K. Tadanaga, N. H. H. Phuc, A. Matsuda, N. Machida, A. Hayashi and M. Tatsumisago, Nat. Rev. Chem. , 2019, 3 , 189-198.
- 25 C. Wang, F.-C. Ren, Y. Zhou, P.-F. Yan, X.-D. Zhou, S.-J. Zhang, W. Liu, W.-D. Zhang, M.-H. Zou, L.-Y. Zeng, X.-Y. Yao, L. Huang, J.-T. Li and S.-G. Sun, Energy Environ. Sci. , 2021, 14 , 437-450.
- 26 C. Wang, S. Hwang, M. Jiang, J. Liang, Y. Sun, K. Adair, M. Zheng, S. Mukherjee, X. Li, R. Li, H. Huang, S. Zhao,

- L. Zhang, S. Lu, J. Wang, C. V. Singh, D. Su and X. Sun, Adv. Energy Mater. , 2021, 11 , 2100210.
2. 27 X. Li, Z. Ren, M. Norouzi Banis, S. Deng, Y. Zhao, Q. Sun, C. Wang, X. Yang, W. Li, J. Liang, X. Li, Y. Sun, K. Adair, R. Li, Y. Hu, T.-K. Sham, H. Huang, L. Zhang, S. Lu, J. Luo and X. Sun, ACS Energy Lett. , 2019, 4 , 2480-2488.
3. 28 G. Liu, Y. Lu, H. Wan, W. Weng, L. Cai, Z. Li, X. Que, H. Liu and X. Yao, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces , 2020, 12 , 28083-28090.
4. 29 F. Walther, F. Strauss, X. Wu, B. Mogwitz, J. Hertle, J. Sann, M. Rohnke, T. Brezesinski and J. Janek, Chem. Mater. , 2021, 33 , 2110-2125.
5. 30 H. W. Kwak and Y. J. Park, Thin Solid Films , 2018, 660 , 625-630.
6. 31 N. Ohta, K. Takada, L. Zhang, R. Ma, M. Osada and T. Sasaki, Adv. Mater. , 2006, 18 , 2226-2229.
7. 32 Z. Sun, Y. Lai, N. lv, Y. Hu, B. Li, S. Jing, L. Jiang, M. Jia, J. Li, S. Chen and F. Liu, Adv. Mater. Interfaces , 2021, 8 , 2100624.
8. 33 L. Wang, X. Sun, J. Ma, B. Chen, C. Li, J. Li, L. Chang, X. Yu, T. S. Chan, Z. Hu, M. Noked and G. Cui, Adv. Energy Mater. , 2021, 11 , 2100881.
9. 34 X. Liu, B. Zheng, J. Zhao, W. Zhao, Z. Liang, Y. Su, C. Xie, K. Zhou, Y. Xiang, J. Zhu, H. Wang, G. Zhong, Z. Gong, J. Huang and Y. Yang, Adv. Energy Mater. , 2021, 11 , 2003583.
10. 35 K. Nagao, Y. Nagata, A. Sakuda, A. Hayashi, M. Deguchi, C. Hotehama, H. Tsukasaki, S. Mori, Y. Orikasa, K. Yamamoto, Y. Uchimoto and M. Tatsumisago, Sci. Adv. , 2020, 6 , 1-11.
11. 36 W. Zhang, D. A. Weber, H. Weigand, T. Arlt, I. Manke, D. Schroder, R. Koerver, T. Leichtweiss, P. Hartmann, W. G. Zeier and J. Janek, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces , 2017, 9 , 17835-17845.
12. 37 M. Sathiya, A. M. Abakumov, D. Foix, G. Rousse, K. Ramesha, M. Saubanere, M. L. Doublet, H. Vezin, C. P. Laisa, A. S. Prakash, D. Gonbeau, G. VanTendeloo and J. M. Tarascon, Nat. Mater. , 2015, 14 , 230-238.
13. 38 M. Sathiya, K. Ramesha, G. Rousse, D. Foix, D. Gonbeau, A. S. Prakash, M. L. Doublet, K. Hemalatha and J. M. Tarascon, Chem. Mater. , 2013, 25 , 1121-1131.
14. 39 M. Sathiya, G. Rousse, K. Ramesha, C. P. Laisa, H. Vezin, M. T. Sougrati, M. L. Doublet, D. Foix, D. Gonbeau, W. Walker, A. S. Prakash, M. Ben Hassine, L. Dupont and J. M. Tarascon, Nat. Mater. , 2013, 12 , 827-835.
15. 40 B. Li, R. Shao, H. Yan, L. An, B. Zhang, H. Wei, J. Ma, D. Xia and X. Han, Adv. Funct. Mater. , 2016, 26 , 1330-1337.
16. 41 D. Mori, H. Kobayashi, T. Okumura, H. Nitani, M. Ogawa and Y. Inaguma, Solid State Ionics , 2016, 285 , 66-74.
17. 42 Y. Yao, L. Zhang, F. Sigel, B. Schwarz, H. Ehrenberg, G. Chen, F. Du and C. Wang, J. Energy Chem. , 2021, 60 , 222-228.
18. 43 G. Assat, C. Delacourt, D. A. D. Corte and J.-M. Tarascon, J. Electrochem. Soc. , 2016, 163 , A2965-A2976.
19. 44 Y. Yu, P. Karayaylali, S. H. Nowak, L. Giordano, M. Gauthier, W. Hong, R. Kou, Q. Li, J. Vinson, T. Kroll, D. Sokaras,
20. C.-J. Sun, N. Charles, F. Maglia, R. Jung and Y. Shao-Horn, Chem. Mater. , 2019, 31 , 7864-7876.
21. 45 R. A. House, J. J. Marie, J. Park, G. J. Rees, S. Agrestini, A. Nag, M. Garcia-Fernandez, K. J. Zhou and P. G. Bruce, Nat. Commun. , 2021, 12 , 2975.
22. 46 A. Grenier, G. E. Kamm, Y. Li, H. Chung, Y. S. Meng and K. W. Chapman, J. Am. Chem. Soc. , 2021, 143 , 5763-5770.
23. 47 B. Li, H. Yan, Y. Zuo and D. Xia, Chem. Mater. , 2017, 29 , 2811-2818.
24. 48 M. Han, Z. Liu, X. Shen, L. Yang, X. Shen, Q. Zhang, X. Liu, J. Wang, H. J. Lin, C. T. Chen, C. W. Pao, J. L. Chen, Q. Kong, X. Yu, R. Yu, L. Gu, Z. Hu, X. Wang, Z. Wang and L. Chen, Adv. Energy Mater. , 2020, 10 , 2002631.
25. 49 A. K. Kalathil, P. Arunkumar, D. H. Kim, J. W. Lee and W. B. Im, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces , 2015, 7 , 7118-7128.
26. 50 R. Neelakantaiah, B. Dasari, P. Ette and K. Ramesha, ChemElectroChem , 2020, 7 , 328-335.
27. 51 Z. Zhuo, K. Dai, J. Wu, L. Zhang, N. Tamura, Y.-d Chuang, J. Feng, J. Guo, Z.-x Shen, G. Liu, F. Pan and W. Yang, ACS Energy Lett. , 2021, 6 , 3417-3424.
28. 52 F. Zheng, S. Zheng, P. Zhang, X. Zhang, S. Wu, Y. Yang and Z.-z Zhu, J. Phys. Chem. C , 2019, 123 , 13491-13499.
29. 53 J. Auvergniot, A. Cassel, D. Foix, V. Viallet, V. Seznec and R. Dedryve `re, Solid State Ionics , 2017, 300 , 78-85.
30. 54 S. Ohno, R. Koerver, G. Dewald, C. Rosenbach, P. Titscher, D. Steckermeier, A. Kwade, J. Janek and W. G. Zeier, Chem. Mater. , 2019, 31 , 2930-2940.
31. 55 J. Auvergniot, A. Cassel, J.-B. Ledeuil, V. Viallet, V. Seznec and R. Dedryve `re, Chem. Mater. , 2017, 29 , 3883-3890.
32. 56 S. Wang, X. Xu, X. Zhang, C. Xin, B. Xu, L. Li, Y.-H. Lin, Y. Shen, B. Li and C.-W. Nan, J. Mater. Chem. A , 2019, 7 , 18612-18618.
33. 57 F. Walther, S. Randau, Y. Schneider, J. Sann, M. Rohnke, F. H. Richter, W. G. Zeier and J. Janek, Chem. Mater. , 2020, 32 , 6123-6136.
34. 58 R. Koerver, I. Aygu ¨n, T. Leichtweiß, C. Dietrich, W. Zhang, J. O. Binder, P. Hartmann, W. G. Zeier and J. Janek, Chem. Mater. , 2017, 29 , 5574-5582.
35. 59 W. Zhang, F. H. Richter, S. P. Culver, T. Leichtweiss, J. G. Lozano, C. Dietrich, P. G. Bruce, W. G. Zeier and J. Janek, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces , 2018, 10
36. , 22226-22236.
37. 60 Y. Zhu, X. He and Y. Mo, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces , 2015, 7 , 23685-23693.
38. 61 A. M. Nolan, Y. Liu and Y. Mo, ACS Energy Lett. , 2019, 4 , 2444-2451.
39. 62 J. Li, C. Ma, M. Chi, C. Liang and N. J. Dudney, Adv. Energy Mater. , 2015, 5 , 1401408.
40. 63 A. M. Nolan, Y. Zhu, X. He, Q. Bai and Y. Mo, Joule , 2018, 2 , 2016-2046.
41. 64 W. Yang and T. P. Devereaux, J. Power Sources , 2018, 389 , 188-197.
42. 65 Z. Zhuo, K. Dai, R. Qiao, R. Wang, J. Wu, Y. Liu, J. Peng, L. Chen, Y.-d Chuang, F. Pan, Z.-x Shen, G. Liu, H. Li,
- T. P. Devereaux and W. Yang, Joule , 2021, 5 , 975-997.

- 66 S. Lee, W. Jin, S. H. Kim, S. H. Joo, G. Nam, P. Oh, Y. K. Kim, S. K. Kwak and J. Cho, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. , 2019, 58 , 10478-10485.
- 67 H. Yan, H. Wang, D. Wang, X. Li, Z. Gong and Y. Yang, Nano Lett. , 2019, 19 , 3280-3287.

|

- 68 J. Wu, S. Sallis, R. Qiao, Q. Li, Z. Zhuo, K. Dai, Z. Guo and W. Yang, J. Visualized Exp. , 2018, e57415.
- 69 Y. Zhu, X. He and Y. Mo, J. Mater. Chem. A , 2016, 4 , 3253-3266.