## Energy &amp; Environmental Science

## PAPER

Cite this: Energy Environ. Sci. 2024, , 3052

1

7

Received 29th February 2024, Accepted 4th April 2024

DOI: 10.1039/d4ee00938j

rsc.li/ees

## Broader context

All-solid-state lithium batteries (ASSLBs) using solid-state electrolytes (SSEs) are widely acknowledged as the next-generation critical energy-storage technology due to their potentially higher energy density and safety performance. To achieve the higher energy density of ASSLBs, it is advantageous to use high-capacity lithium-rich cathode materials with SSEs. However, the interface between the SSEs and the lithium-rich cathode is not well understood. In this work, a simple composite cathode system with only SSEs and Li-rich oxides is used to investigate the compatibility of Li-rich cathodes and SSEs to avoid carbon interference at the SSE interface. By matching with two classical SSEs, Li6PS5Cl (LPSC) and Li3InCl6 (LIC), the interface compatibility of SSEs/LRO is revealed. The interface incompatibility of LRO and LPSC is responsible for the poor electrochemical performance. Unexpectedly, a self-constructed lattice-oxygen-stabilized interface is formed by the interaction of indium and O (2 /C0 n ) /C0 in the interface of LRO and LIC, suppressing the irreversible lattice oxygen loss and stabilizing the surface structure. Therefore, LIC/LRO demonstrates excellent electrochemical performance, e.g. , high ICE, high capacity, and high stability.

## Introduction

Electrochemical energy storage systems for electric vehicles put unprecedentedly high demands on safety and energy density.

a College of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Artificial Functional Materials, National Laboratory of Solid State Microstructures, Collaborative Innovation Center of Advanced Microstructures, and Frontiers Science Center for Critical Earth Material Cycling, Nanjing University, Nanjing, 210023, China. E-mail: shguo@nju.edu.cn, hszhou@nju.edu.cn

b Lab of Power and Energy Storage Batteries, Shenzhen Research Institute of Nanjing University, Shenzhen, 518057, China

† Electronic supplementary information (ESI) available. See DOI: https://doi.org/ 10.1039/d4ee00938j

‡ These authors contributed equally to this work.

3

0

5

2

1

7

The currently dominant lithium-ion battery (LIB) systems are no longer able to meet the growing demand for safety and operation range. 1-3 The liquid organic electrolytes in LIBs are flammable and leaky, resulting in safety risks. 4-6 Hence, various solid-state electrolytes are intensively studied. 7-10 Especially, many non-flammable inorganic solid-state-electrolytes (SSEs) demonstrate high ionic conductivity ( B 10 mS cm /C0 1 ), comparable with the liquid organic electrolytes. 11 Among the various candidate SSE materials, argyrodite Li6PS5Cl (LPSC) has received widespread attention due to its manufacturability and high ionic conductivity. 12,13 In addition, the recently discovered halide Li3InCl6 (LIC) with excellent electrochemical oxidative stability and chemical stability offers another option. 14-18 Furthermore, SSEs can match with Li metal anodes to realize

,

View Article Online View Journal | View Issue

## Self-constructing a lattice-oxygen-stabilized interface in Li-rich cathodes to enable highenergy all-solid-state batteries †

Xiangqun Xu, ‡ ab Shiyong Chu, ‡ ab Sheng Xu, ab Shaohua Guo * ab and Haoshen Zhou * a

Employing lithium-rich oxides as cathode materials offers an ideal option for achieving high-energy allsolid-state lithium batteries (ASSLBs), while lithium-rich cathode materials are usually hard to directly match with solid-state electrolytes (SSEs), severely limiting the capacity utilization of the high-capacity cathodes in ASSLBs. Here, a composite cathode system with only SSEs and lithium-rich oxides is used to investigate the compatibility, where the single-crystal Li2RuO3 (LRO) with high electronic conductivity is selected as a model lithium-rich oxide to avoid additional conductive carbon interfaces. By matching with two classical SSEs, Li6PS5Cl and Li3InCl6 (LIC), we reveal that the interface compatibility of SSEs/ LRO, especially the compatibility of SSEs with the oxidized lattice oxygen (O (2 /C0 n ) /C0 , 0 o n o 2) of LRO, is the dominant factor of the electrochemical properties. Furthermore, a self-constructed lattice-oxygen-stabilized interface formed by the interaction of indium with O (2 /C0 n ) /C0 is first reported, which effectively prevents the O loss and interface degradation of LRO, resulting in a reversible capacity of 294.0 mA h g /C0 1 with an initial coulombic efficiency of 98.1% and a capacity retention of 99.6% after 300 cycles, as well as a specific energy of 495 W h kg /C0 1 based on the mass of a 30 wt%-LIC/70 wt%-LRO composite cathode and Li anode.

high-energy and safe all-solid-state Li batteries (ASSLBs). 19-21 According to previous calculations in the literature, the specific energy density of ASSLBs with various commercial cathodes such as LiFePO4 (LFP), LiNi x Co y Mn z /Al z O2 (NCM, NCA), and LiCoO2 (LCO) can be significantly improved and easily break the 300 W h kg /C0 1 barrier for LIBs (Fig. S1, ESI † ). 22 Therefore, pushing the limits of cathodic performance is key to the pursuit of higher energy-density ASSLBs.

Li-rich oxides, taking the advantages of both the transition metal and lattice oxygen activity, are widely accepted to be the next-generation cathode materials to reach the capacity of 300 mA h g /C0 1 and energy density of 500 W h kg /C0 1 . 23-25 However, the highly reactive oxidized lattice oxygen (O (2 /C0 n ) /C0 , 0 o n o 2) in Li-rich oxide cathodes at high charging potential usually leads to irreversible lattice oxygen loss, surface structure damage, and subsequent electrochemical performance degradation. 26 To address these issues, interface engineering is widely accepted and applied. 27 In the LPSC-based composite cathode, surface sulfidation on the Li-rich oxide cathode resulted in an increase in capacity from 119.9 mA h g /C0 1 for the pristine cathode to 209.8 mA h g /C0 1 and a stable cycle performance with 72% capacity retention after 2022 cycles. 28 In the LIC-based composite cathode, an Li3PO4 coating was developed to realize the significant increase of both capacity and cycle stability. 29 However, at present, almost all Li-rich oxide composite cathodes contain conductive carbon, and the carbon interface is considered to be a key factor contributing to the deterioration of electrochemical performance. The introduction of conductive carbon can contribute to interface deterioration due to decomposition of the SSE. 30-32 Therefore, it is urgent to design simple composite cathode systems with only Li-rich oxides and SSEs to explore the deterioration mechanisms of the electrochemical performance and to develop more effective interfacial modification strategies ( e.g. , self-constructing interface) to address the deterioration.

In this study, we design a simple composite cathode with only SSEs (LPSC and LIC) and the single-crystal Li2RuO3 (LRO) to investigate the interface compatibility, where the utilization of the highly conductive cathode material LRO can well exclude the interface effect of additional conductive carbon additives (Fig. 1). Based on the analysis of galvanostatic charge/discharge, (scanning) transmission electron microscopy-energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (TEM-EDS), in situ differential electrochemical mass spectrometry (DEMS), in situ electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), the interface incompatibility of LRO and LPSC is well revealed and undoubtedly responsible for the poor electrochemical performance. Unexpectedly, a lattice-oxygenstabilized interface is self-constructed by the interaction of indium and O (2 /C0 n ) /C0 in the interface of LRO and LIC, mitigating the irreversible lattice oxygen loss and stabilizing the surface structure. Thanks to the compatible interface, the LIC/LRObased ASSLBs show a high reversible capacity of 294.0 mA h g /C0 1 at 20 mA g /C0 1 with an initial coulombic efficiency (ICE) of 98.1% and excellent cycling stability with 99.6% capacity retention after 300 cycles at 100 mA g /C0 1 . In addition, a high specific

Fig. 1 Schematic illustration of the highly reactive oxidized oxygen (O (2 /C0 n ) /C0 ) evolution of LRO at the interface of two classical SSEs, LPSC and LIC, with LRO in ASSLBs and the self-constructed lattice-oxygenstabilized interface between LIC and LRO. The highly reactive oxidized oxygen in LPSC/LRO transfers to released O2, leading to layered structure failure of LRO and severe interfacial degradation. The highly reactive oxidized oxygen in LIC/LRO is stabilized by the indium-oxygen interactions at the interface, ensuring a stable structure of LRO and a robust interface.

energy of 495 W h kg /C0 1 is obtained, based on the mass of a 30 wt%-LIC/70 wt%-LRO composite cathode and Li anode. This study highlights the importance of interface compatibility in Lirich oxides/SSE-based composite cathodes and provides new insights to achieve high-energy-density and stable ASSLBs.

## Results and discussion

Single-crystal LRO particles were successfully prepared by a classical solid phase sintering method (Fig. S2a and b, ESI † ). 33 The LRO possesses a high electronic conductivity of 37.8 S cm /C0 1 at 60 1 C through the direct current (DC) polarization of the symmetrical cell (Fig. S2c and d, ESI † ). The high electronic conductivity of LRO allows the absence of conductive carbon in the composite cathodes, which will avoid carbon interference at the SSE interface. 34 Therefore, carbon-free LIC/LRO and LPSC/ LRO composites can be directly used as cathodes in ASSLBs to work with Li-In alloy anodes and LPSC intermediate electrolyte layers separating the cathodes and the anodes (Fig. 2a). The LPSC/LRO composite cathode shows a reversible capacity of only 147.5 mA h g /C0 1 in the first cycle and an ICE of 73.2% at a current density of 20 mA g /C0 1 (Fig. 2b). Surprisingly, the reversible capacity of the LIC/LRO composite cathode can be as high as 294.0 mA h g /C0 1 for the first cycle with an ICE of up to 98.1% (Fig. 2c). Notably, LIC/LRO exhibits an extremely long lattice oxygen oxidation plateau at approximately 4.2 V, which is hardly present in LPSC/LRO. Unexpectedly, LIC/LRO shows an ultrahigh energy density of 970 W h kg /C0 1 (Fig. 2d) based on the active materials, which is the highest energy density among those of various cathode materials ( e.g. , LFP, NCM, NCA, LCO and Lirich) in ASSLBs. The specific statistics are listed in Table S1 (ESI † ). Fig. 2e shows the rate capabilities of LIC/LRO and LPSC/ LRO at various current densities from 50 to 1000 mA g /C0 1 . When the current density is increased to 1000 mA g /C0 1 , LIC/LRO still delivers a much higher specific capacity of 126.1 mA h g /C0 1 than

|

Fig. 2 Electrochemical performance. (a) Schematic diagrams of ASSLBs with LPSC/LRO and LIC/LRO composite cathodes. The charge/discharge profiles of the first two cycles of (b) LPSC/LRO and (c) LIC/LRO ASSLBs at 20 mA g /C0 1 and 60 1 C. LIC/LRO shows an impressive ICE of 98.1% and an extremely long lattice oxygen oxidation plateau at approximately 4.2 V. (d) A summary of the energy densities for state-of-the-art ASSLBs based on the cathode active materials. LIC/LRO demonstrates the highest energy density of 970 W h kg /C0 1 . More details are given in Table S1 (ESI † ). (e) Rate capabilities of LIC/LRO and LPSC/LRO composite cathodes in ASSLBs. (f) Cycling stability of LIC/LRO and LPSC/LRO in ASSLBs at 100 mA g /C0 1 and 60 1 C. Inset: The discharge/charge curves of the 200th cycle.

23.4 mA h g /C0 1 for LPSC/LRO. Meanwhile, LIC/LRO has a capacity retention of 99.6% after 300 cycles at the current density of 100 mA g /C0 1 , indicating an impressive long-term cycle stability (Fig. 2f). After 200 cycles, the specific capacity of LIC/LRO is 222.4 mA h g /C0 1 , while the specific capacity of LPSC/LRO is only 67.4 mA h g /C0 1 . The inset figure of Fig. 2f illustrates that LIC/LRO shows a smaller voltage polarization than LPSC/LRO at the 200th charge/discharge curve. Fig. S3 (ESI † ) shows that LIC/LRO has a better discharge capacity and stability than LPSC/LRO at 30 1 C. However, this stable electrochemical cycle does not exist due to the side reaction of conductive carbon with the SSE when LIC/ LRO is mixed with conductive carbon, as shown in Fig. S4 (ESI † ), which is consistent with the previous reports. 30

Considering the practical application of ASSLBs, the electrochemical performance under harsh conditions should also be evaluated. 35 With a high LRO load of 18.85 mg cm /C0 2 , a reversible area capacity of 4.14 mA h cm /C0 2 can be obtained

(Fig. S5, ESI † ). In addition, a battery with the LIC/LRO composite cathode and the lowest potential Li metal anode with a 2-fold excess was further assembled to evaluate the highest energy density. As shown in Fig. S6 (ESI † ), an initial specific energy of up to 495 W h kg /C0 1 is obtained based on the mass of a 30 wt%LIC/70 wt%-LRO composite cathode and Li metal anode.

As mentioned above, the LIC/LRO composite cathode shows high ICE, high capacity, and high stability, while the LPSC/LRO composite cathode shows poor electrochemical performances. Thermodynamic mutual reaction energies were calculated to assess the chemical interface stability of LPSC and LIC with LRO (Fig. S7, ESI † ). 36 The calculation results show that LIC/LRO also shows a more stable interface than LPSC/LRO. The detailed interfacial properties of LIC/LRO were explored at different (de)lithiation states by X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) and XPS. As shown in Fig. 3a, LIC represented by the In-Cl peak is unchanged and an In-O peak appears representing the interface

Fig. 3 Characterization of the lattice-oxygen-stabilized interface in LIC/LRO. (a) The In 3d and (b) O 1s XPS spectra of LIC/LRO. The reversible behavior of the In-O peak is consistent with the reversible O 2 /C0 2 O (2 /C0 n ) /C0 behavior during the charge and discharge processes. STEM-EDS (c) line scans and (d) mapping of In, O and Ru in LRO (LIC/LRO). Scale bar, 10 nm. A self-constructed lattice-oxygen-stabilized interface by the interaction of indium with O (2 /C0 n ) /C0 is formed during the electrochemical process. TEM images of LRO in (e) LPSC/LRO and (f) LIC/LRO after 50 and 100 cycles. After cycling, the layered structure of the LRO in LPSC/LRO is severely damaged, while that in LIC/LRO is will maintained. (g) In situ DEMS measurements of LPSC/LRO and LIC/LRO during the first charge process at 30 mA g /C0 1 . LPSC/LRO releases massive oxygen due to the incompatibility of LPSC and O (2 /C0 n ) /C0 , while the oxygen release is suppressed by the indium-oxygen interactions in LIC/LRO.

InO x Cl. The In-O peak appears at the fully charged state and then disappears in the subsequent discharge process, suggesting that the highly reactive oxidized lattice oxygen can be bonded by In at charged states.

To better understand the source of the oxygen in In-O, the oxidation state of the oxygen was further explored. The peak at 530.5 eV of the O 1s XPS spectra, representing oxidized lattice oxygen (O (2 /C0 n ) /C0 ), appears in the fully charged state and then disappears in the fully discharged state (Fig. 3b). Furthermore, the XAS curves of oxygen are also a good indication of the lattice oxygen redox characteristics during charging and discharging processes (Fig. S8, ESI † ). 37 Surprisingly, this observation is also in complete agreement with the variation of In-O. 38,39 The phenomenon further indicates a unique interaction between indium and oxidized lattice oxygen at the LIC and LRO interface, which is found to stabilize the highly reactive oxidized lattice oxygen at the fully charged state. To further verify the unique interface, scanning transmission electron

|

microscopy-energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (STEM-EDS) was employed to probe the interphase. Fig. 3c shows that sudden changes in the intensity of Ru, In, and O line scans are observed, suggesting that this is a process from the surface to the bulk of LRO. The intensity of the In peak indicates the existence of an In-rich interfacial layer at the particle edge of LRO. Moreover, the mapping results of the interface also show a more aggregated distribution of In element than Ru and O at the interface (Fig. 3d). This demonstrates the self-construction of a lattice oxygen-stabilized interface between LIC and LRO.

For the structural evolution of the LRO interface, TEM was conducted to explore cycled LPSC/LRO and LIC/LRO composites. In LPSC/LRO, the near-surface crystal structure is distinctly different from that of the bulk, suggesting that LRO undergoes a severe degradation of the surface structure during cycling (Fig. 3e). 40-42 In addition, the interphase thickness in LPSC/LRO also increases with the number of cycles. In contrast, the surface structure of LRO in LIC/LRO is still layered, illustrating the preservation of integrity during cycling (Fig. 3f). After 100 cycles, the interphase on the surface of LIC/LRO is only 1.2 nm, while LPSC/LRO exhibits an interphase of approximately 28.8 nm. In detail, an increasing interphase corresponds to a rapid increase in impedance, whereas a stable interphase indicates an almost constant impedance.

To understand what causes the surface structure degradation, it is necessary to determine the charge compensation mechanism of LRO. The first charge curve of LRO can be categorized into slope and plateau regions. In the slope region at low voltages, the oxidation of the transition metal Ru from Ru 4+ to Ru 5+ (Fig. S9, ESI † ) mainly occurs. 43,44 The plateau in the high voltage region is attributed to the lattice oxygen redox of O 2 /C0 /O (2 /C0 n ) /C0 , and unfavorable lattice oxygen loss will always happen in the process. 45 Subsequently, the oxygen loss causes the degradation of the surface structure of LRO, e.g. the transformation of a layered phase into spinel, rock-salt, and even amorphous phases. 46,47 Therefore, in situ DEMS was further employed to detect the oxygen release during delithiation. 48 Fig. 3g demonstrates that LPSC/LRO exhibits an obvious oxygen release at the high voltage plateau of lattice oxygen oxidation, which can well explain the severe surface degradation of LRO in LPSC/LRO. 49,50 In comparison, the oxygen release is well mitigated in LIC/LRO, which can be attributed to the fact that the InO interaction can stabilize the highly active O (2 /C0 n ) /C0 and inhibit subsequent oxygen loss. The generation of CO2 in both LPSC/ LRO and LIC/LRO at high voltages can be reasonably attributed to the decomposition of carbonate on the cathode surface. 51 Generally, the massive oxygen loss of LRO in LPSC/LRO results in the poor interface compatibility, and the In-O interaction in

Fig. 4 Interfacial compatibility of LIC/LRO and LPSC/LRO at various electrochemical states. The DRT 2D intensity color map and charge/discharge profiles of (a) LIC/LRO and (b) LPSC/LRO. LPSC/LRO shows a sharp increase in R ct when charged to high voltage, indicating the poor compatibility of LPSC with O (2 /C0 n ) /C0 or O2; while LIC/LRO does not, suggesting an excellent compatibility of LIC with LRO due to the indium-oxygen interactions. Nyquist plots of (c) LIC/LRO and (d) LPSC/LRO at different cycles. Fitting R SSE and R SSE/LRO of (e) LIC/LRO and (f) LPSC/LRO at different cycles. The interfacial impedance of LPSC/LRO increases rapidly with the number of cycles, while LIC/LRO shows slight variations.

LIC/LRO can well stabilize the highly active oxygen, leading to the final enhanced interface compatibility and subsequent excellent electrochemical performance.

To reveal the interfacial compatibility of LPSC and LIC with LRO at different electrochemical states, in situ EIS combined with distribution of relaxation time (DRT) analysis was conducted in the first cycle. LIC/LRO shows a negligible impedance increase from 7 to 10 ohms in the mid/low-frequency region, while LPSC/LRO shows a dramatic impedance increase from 10 to 4100 ohms (Fig. S10, ESI † ). To obtain a more precise trend in impedance evolution of the two composite cathodes, the DRT method was further employed. This mathematical transformation transposes the Nyquist plot from the frequency domain to the time domain, yielding a more distinct representation of the spectra. Thus, the DRT technique decouples the resistance evolution of the composite cathode during the intercalation/deintercalation of Li + . 52 Based on the impedance and DRT of the symmetric cell, the peaks at 10 /C0 6 -10 /C0 5 , 10 /C0 4 -10 /C0 3 , 10 /C0 3 -10 /C0 2 and 10 /C0 2 -10 /C0 1 s represent SSE, SEI/CEI, R ct1 and R ct2 resistances, respectively (Fig. S11 and S12, ESI † ). 53 As the voltage rises to the onset of lattice oxygen oxidation, the R ct increases slightly at the interface of LIC/LRO at high voltage (Fig. 4a). 54 However, the R ct of LPSC/LRO starts to increase sharply, especially R ct2 is 1063 ohms at 4.5 V, much higher than 200 ohms for LIC/LRO (Fig. 4b). During the discharge process (Fig. S10, ESI † ), the interface of the LPSC/LRO cathode still maintains a higher resistance, indicating an irreversible and severe interfacial degradation at high voltage. The results show that LIC has a higher electrochemical compatibility with LRO than LPSC.

Ex situ EIS was also carried out to evaluate the stability of the electrode-electrolyte interfaces at different cycles. The high frequency region corresponds to the bulk phase resistance of the SSE ( R SSE) and the mid-frequency semicircle is related to the SSE/LRO interface resistance ( R SSE/LRO). 55 The impedance of LIC/LRO does not grow significantly throughout the cycling process, contributing to the excellent cycle stability (Fig. 4c). The fitting results of the impedance are shown in Fig. 4e, and the R LIC/LRO increases only slightly to 37.7 ohms after 200 cycles, indicating the long-term cycling stability of the interphase. In contrast, LPSC/LRO increases sharply from 50.0 ohms at the 50th cycle to 260.5 ohms at the 200th cycle (Fig. 4d and f). These suggest that LPSC and LRO produce a progressively degraded interface, while LIC/LRO has a favorable and stable interface. 56 These results are consistent with changes in the thickness of the interphase. In detail, an increasing interphase corresponds to a rapid increase in impedance, whereas a stable interphase indicates an almost constant impedance.

## Conclusions

In summary, through designing a simple composite cathode with only SSEs (LPSC and LIC) and the single-crystal LRO, the interface incompatibility of LRO and LPSC is well revealed and undoubtedly responsible for the poor electrochemical performance. Unexpectedly, a lattice-oxygen-stabilized interface is self-constructed by the interaction of indium and O (2 /C0 n ) /C0 (0 o n o 2) in the interface of LRO and LIC, mitigating irreversible oxygen loss and stabilizing the surface structure. Therefore, LIC/ LRO demonstrates excellent electrochemical performance, achieving a high reversible capacity of 294.0 mA h g /C0 1 with an ICE of 98.1% and durable cycling stability (a capacity retention rate of 99.6% after 300 cycles). Furthermore, a high specific energy of up to 495 W h kg /C0 1 is obtained based on the mass of the LIC/LRO composite cathode and Li anode, and a reversible area capacity of 4.14 mA h cm /C0 2 is obtained with a high LRO load of 18.85 mg cm /C0 2 . This rational design of the Li-rich cathode/SSE interface provides a new understanding of interface compatibility and new strategies to enhance lattice oxygen redox reversibility and energy density in ASSLBs.

## Experimental

## Synthesis

Li2RuO3 was synthesized by the solid solution method using a stoichiometric mixture of RuO2 and Li2CO3 (10 wt% excess). The mixture was calcined at 900 1 C for 12 h and then at 1000 1 C for 12 h in air followed by an intermediate grinding process.

## Cell assembly and electrochemical measurements

The composite cathode was prepared by manually mixing LRO with either LIC or LPSC in a 7/3 mass ratio. Both LIC and LPSC were obtained from MTI Corporation and used as received. For ASSLB assembly, 120 mg of LPSC was placed in a 10 mm polyaryletheretherketone (PEEK) cylinder and pressed at 300 MPa for 3 min. Subsequently, the composite cathode was added and pressed at 360 MPa for 3 min. LiIn or Li was then applied to the other side of the cell, which was held in a stainless-steel plate under an applied pressure of B 20 MPa. Galvanostatic cycling of the ASSLB was performed within a voltage range of 2.0-4.5 V versus Li/Li + at various current densities using a LAND battery test system (Wuhan LAND Electronic Co., Ltd, China). DC polarization measurement was conducted using a BioLogic VSP-300 instrument. EIS measurements were performed over a frequency range of 1 M Hz to 0.1 Hz with an amplitude of 10 mV. DRT analysis was carried out using a MATLAB GUI toolbox developed by Ciucci's research group.

## Material characterization

XRD (Bruker D8 Advance Diffractometer) and SEM (SEM; Hitachi SU8010) were applied to characterize cathode materials' structure and morphology. TEM was conducted on an FEITF20. XPS was conducted on a Thermo Scientific ESCALAB 250 XI X-ray photoelectron spectrometer and the experiments were carried out after etching 50 nm with argon. XAS data were collected at the beamline 11B of the Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility (SSRF, Shanghai). The gas evolution of samples during the initial charge was studied by DEMS (HPR-40 Hiden).

|

## Phase equilibrium analysis

The chemical and electrochemical stability of the composite cathode interface was systematically analyzed according to the scheme proposed by Mo et al . 36 Details are provided in Table S2 (ESI † ).

## Author contributions

The work was designed by X. Q. Xu and S. Y. Chu. The TEM and STEM images were processed by S. Xu. X. Q. Xu, S. Y. Chu, S. H. Guo, and H. S. Zhou wrote the paper. X. Q. Xu and S. Y. Chu contributed equally to this work.

## Conflicts of interest

There are no conflicts to declare.

## Acknowledgements

This work was financially supported by the National Key R&amp;D Program of China (no. 2021YFA1202300), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (no. 92372201, 22075132 and 22209069), the Natural Science Foundation of Jiangsu Province, China (no. BK20211556 and BK20220783), Jiangsu Province Carbon Peak and Neutrality Innovation Program (Industry tackling on prospect and key technology, no. BE2022002-2), the Shenzhen Science and Technology Innovation Committee (no. RCYX20200714114524165, JCYJ20230807154501004, and JCYJ20210324123002008), and Guangdong Basic and Applied Basic Research Foundation (2022A1515010026). We also thank Fundamental Research Funds from the Central Universities and Frontiers Science Center for Critical Earth Material Cycling Fund. The authors are grateful to the High Performance Computing Center (HPCC) of Nanjing University for doing the numerical calculations in this paper on its blade cluster system.

## Notes and references

- 1 Y. Lu, X. Rong, Y.-S. Hu, L. Chen and H. Li, Energy Storage Mater. , 2019, 23 , 144-153.
- 2 J. Xie and Y. C. Lu, Nat. Commun. , 2020, 11 , 2499.
- 3 L. Trahey, F. R. Brushett, N. P. Balsara, G. Ceder, L. Cheng, Y.-M. Chiang, N. T. Hahn, B. J. Ingram, S. D. Minteer, J. S. Moore, K. T. Mueller, L. F. Nazar, K. A. Persson, D. J. Siegel, K. Xu, K. R. Zavadil, V. Srinivasan and G. W. Crabtree, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. , 2020, 117 , 12550-12557.
- 4 X. Feng, D. Ren, X. He and M. Ouyang, Joule , 2020, 4 , 743-770.
- 5 J. Hou, X. Feng, L. Wang, X. Liu, A. Ohma, L. Lu, D. Ren, W. Huang, Y. Li, M. Yi, Y. Wang, J. Ren, Z. Meng, Z. Chu, G.-L. Xu, K. Amine, X. He, H. Wang, Y. Nitta and M. Ouyang, Energy Storage Mater. , 2021, 39 , 395-402.
- 6 J. Hou, L. Lu, L. Wang, A. Ohma, D. Ren, X. Feng, Y. Li, Y. Li, I. Ootani, X. Han, W. Ren, X. He, Y. Nitta and M. Ouyang, Nat. Commun. , 2020, 11 , 5100.

|

- 7 Q. Li, X. Sun, D. X. Cao, Y. Wang, P. C. Luan and H. L. Zhu, Electrochem. Energy Rev. , 2022, 5 , 18.
- 8 B. Li, C. Wang, R. Yu, J. Han, S. Jiang, C. Zhang and S. He, Energy Environ. Sci. , 2024, 17 , 1854-1884.
- 9 Z. Zhang, H. Chen, Z. Hu, S. Zhou, L. Zhang and J. Luo, Front. Energy , 2022, 16 , 706-733.
- 10 P. Lu, D. Wu, L. Chen, H. Li and F. Wu, Electrochem. Energy Rev. , 2022, 5 , 3.
- 11 Z.-Y. Wang, C.-Z. Zhao, S. Sun, Y.-K. Liu, Z.-X. Wang, S. Li, R. Zhang, H. Yuan and J.-Q. Huang, Matter , 2023, 6 , 1096-1124.
- 12 Q. Zhang, D. Cao, Y. Ma, A. Natan, P. Aurora and H. Zhu, Adv. Mater. , 2019, 31 , 1901131.
- 13 Z. Wu, X. Li, C. Zheng, Z. Fan, W. Zhang, H. Huang, Y. Gan, Y. Xia, X. He, X. Tao and J. Zhang, Electrochem. Energy Rev. , 2023, 6 , 13.
- 14 C. Wang, J. Liang, J. T. Kim and X. Sun, Sci. Adv. , 2022, 8 , eadc9516.
- 15 K.-H. Park, K. Kaup, A. Assoud, Q. Zhang, X. Wu and L. F. Nazar, ACS Energy Lett. , 2020, 5 , 533-539.
- 16 Y. Han, S. H. Jung, H. Kwak, S. Jun, H. H. Kwak, J. H. Lee, S. T. Hong and Y. S. Jung, Adv. Energy Mater. , 2021, 11 , 2100126.
- 17 L. Zhou, T.-T. Zuo, C. Y. Kwok, S. Y. Kim, A. Assoud, Q. Zhang, J. Janek and L. F. Nazar, Nat. Energy , 2022, 7 , 83-93.
- 18 C. Rosenbach, F. Walther, J. Ruhl, M. Hartmann, T. A. Hendriks, S. Ohno, J. Janek and W. G. Zeier, Adv. Energy Mater. , 2022, 13 , 2203673.
- 19 X. Yang, X. Gao, M. Jiang, J. Luo, J. Yan, J. Fu, H. Duan, S. Zhao, Y. Tang, R. Yang, R. Li, J. Wang, H. Huang, C. Veer Singh and X. Sun, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. , 2023, 62 , e202215680.
- 20 P. Oh, J. Yun, J. H. Choi, K. S. Saqib, T. J. Embleton, S. Park, C. Lee, J. Ali, K. Ko and J. Cho, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. , 2022, 61 , e202201249.
- 21 Y.-G. Lee, S. Fujiki, C. Jung, N. Suzuki, N. Yashiro, R. Omoda, D.-S. Ko, T. Shiratsuchi, T. Sugimoto, S. Ryu, J. H. Ku, T. Watanabe, Y. Park, Y. Aihara, D. Im and I. T. Han, Nat. Energy , 2020, 5 , 299-308.
- 22 H. Li, Energy Storage Sci. Technol. , 2018, 7 , 188-193.
- 23 S. Zhao, K. Yan, J. Zhang, B. Sun and G. Wang, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. , 2021, 60 , 2208-2220.
- 24 R. A. House, J.-J. Marie, M. A. Pe ´rez-Osorio, G. J. Rees, E. Boivin and P. G. Bruce, Nat. Energy , 2021, 6 , 781-789.
- 25 B. Qiu, M. Zhang, L. Wu, J. Wang, Y. Xia, D. Qian, H. Liu, S. Hy, Y. Chen, K. An, Y. Zhu, Z. Liu and Y. S. Meng, Nat. Commun. , 2016, 7 , 12108.
- 26 K. Zhang, B. Li, Y. Zuo, J. Song, H. Shang, F. Ning and D. Xia, Electrochem. Energy Rev. , 2019, 2 , 606-623.
- 27 W. Du, Q. Shao, Y. Wei, C. Yan, P. Gao, Y. Lin, Y. Jiang, Y. Liu, X. Yu, M. Gao, W. Sun and H. Pan, ACS Energy Lett. , 2022, 7 , 3006-3014.
- 28 Y. Wang, D. X. Wu, P. H. Chen, P. S. Lu, X. F. Wang, L. Q. Chen, H. Li and F. Wu, Adv. Funct. Mater. , 2023, 34 , 2309822.
- 29 R. Yu, C. Wang, H. Duan, M. Jiang, A. Zhang, A. Fraser, J. Zuo, Y. Wu, Y. Sun, Y. Zhao, J. Liang, J. Fu, S. Deng,

- Z. Ren, G. Li, H. Huang, R. Li, N. Chen, J. Wang, X. Li, C. V. Singh and X. Sun, Adv. Mater. , 2022, 35 , e2207234.
2. 30 F. Walther, S. Randau, Y. Schneider, J. Sann, M. Rohnke, F. H. Richter, W. G. Zeier and J. Janek, Chem. Mater. , 2020, 32 , 6123-6136.
3. 31 W. Zhang, T. Leichtweiss, S. P. Culver, R. Koerver, D. Das, D. A. Weber, W. G. Zeier and J. Janek, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces , 2017, 9 , 35888-35896.
4. 32 K. Yoon, J. J. Kim, W. M. Seong, M. H. Lee and K. Kang, Sci. Rep. , 2018, 8 , 8066.
5. 33 B. Li, R. Shao, H. Yan, L. An, B. Zhang, H. Wei, J. Ma, D. Xia and X. Han, Adv. Funct. Mater. , 2016, 26 , 1330-1337.
6. 34 S. Deng, Y. Sun, X. Li, Z. Ren, J. Liang, K. Doyle-Davis, J. Liang, W. Li, M. Norouzi Banis, Q. Sun, R. Li, Y. Hu, H. Huang, L. Zhang, S. Lu, J. Luo and X. Sun, ACS Energy Lett. , 2020, 5 , 1243-1251.
7. 35 H. Pan, M. Zhang, Z. Cheng, H. Jiang, J. Yang, P. Wang, P. He and H. Zhou, Sci. Adv. , 2022, 8 , eabn4372.
8. 36 Y. Zhu, X. He and Y. Mo, J. Mater. Chem. A , 2016, 4 , 3253-3266.
9. 37 N. Voronina, N. Yaqoob, H. J. Kim, K. S. Lee, H. D. Lim, H. G. Jung, O. Guillon, P. Kaghazchi and S. T. Myung, Adv. Energy Mater. , 2021, 11 , 2100901.
10. 38 Q. Wang, Y. Liao, X. Jin, C. Cheng, S. Chu, C. Sheng, L. Zhang, B. Hu, S. Guo and H. Zhou, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. , 2022, 61 , e202206625.
11. 39 F. Ning, B. Li, J. Song, Y. Zuo, H. Shang, Z. Zhao, Z. Yu, W. Chu, K. Zhang, G. Feng, X. Wang and D. Xia, Nat. Commun. , 2020, 11 , 4973.
12. 40 Z. Xu, X. Z. Guo, W. J. Song, J. Z. Wang, T. T. Qin, Y. F. Yuan and J. Lu, Adv. Mater. , 2023, 36 , 2303612.
13. 41 B. Xiao, H. Liu, N. Chen, M. N. Banis, H. Yu, J. Liang, Q. Sun, T. K. Sham, R. Li, M. Cai, G. A. Botton and X. Sun, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. , 2020, 59 , 14313-14320.
14. 42 W. B. Hua, S. N. Wang, M. Knapp, S. J. Leake, A. Senyshyn, C. Richter, M. Yavuz, J. R. Binder, C. P. Grey, H. Ehrenberg, S. Indris and B. Schwarz, Nat. Commun. , 2019, 10 , 5365.
15. 43 Y. Qiao, S. Guo, K. Zhu, P. Liu, X. Li, K. Jiang, C.-J. Sun, M. Chen and H. Zhou, Energy Environ. Sci. , 2018, 11 , 299-305.
16. 44 M. Sathiya, A. M. Abakumov, D. Foix, G. Rousse, K. Ramesha, M. Saubanere, M. L. Doublet, H. Vezin, C. P. Laisa, A. S. Prakash, D. Gonbeau, G. VanTendeloo and J. M. Tarascon, Nat. Mater. , 2015, 14 , 230-238.
17. 45 Y. J. Park and D. H. Seo, Nat. Energy , 2023, 8 , 323-324.
18. 46 S. Kang, D. Choi, H. Lee, B. Choi and Y.-M. Kang, Adv. Mater. , 2023, 35 , 2211965.
19. 47 R. A. House, U. Maitra, M. A. Pe ´rez-Osorio, J. G. Lozano, L. Jin, J. W. Somerville, L. C. Duda, A. Nag, A. Walters, K.-J. Zhou, M. R. Roberts and P. G. Bruce, Nature , 2020, 577 , 502-508.
20. 48 H. Y. Lu, S. Y. Chu, J. M. Tian, Q. Wang, C. C. Sheng, C. Cheng, R. X. Liu, A. M. D'Angelo, W. K. Pang, L. Zhang, H. S. Zhou and S. H. Guo, Adv. Funct. Mater. , 2023, 34 , 2305470.
21. 49 W. L. Yang, Nat. Energy , 2018, 3 , 619-620.
22. 50 H. Jang, W. Jin, G. Nam, Y. Yoo, J. S. Jeon, J. Park, M. G. Kim and J. Cho, Energy Environ. Sci. , 2020, 13 , 2167-2177.
23. 51 S. Kim, H. S. Kim, B. Kim, Y. J. Kim, J. W. Jung and W. H. Ryu, Adv. Energy Mater. , 2023, 13 , 2301983.
24. 52 Y. Lu, C. Z. Zhao, J. Q. Huang and Q. Zhang, Joule , 2022, 6 , 1172-1198.
25. 53 P. Lu, Y. Xia, Y. Huang, Z. Li, Y. Wu, X. Wang, G. Sun, S. Shi, Z. Sha, L. Chen, H. Li and F. Wu, Adv. Funct. Mater. , 2022, 33 , 2211211.
26. 54 Y. Zhang, C. Yin, B. Qiu, G. Chen, Y. Shang and Z. Liu, Energy Storage Mater. , 2022, 53 , 763-773.
27. 55 Y. Wu, K. Zhou, F. Ren, Y. Ha, Z. Liang, X. Zheng, Z. Wang, W. Yang, M. Zhang, M. Luo, C. Battaglia, W. Yang, L. Zhu, Z. Gong and Y. Yang, Energy Environ. Sci. , 2022, 15 , 3470-3482.
28. 56 A. Banerjee, X. Wang, C. Fang, E. A. Wu and Y. S. Meng, Chem. Rev. , 2020, 120 , 6878-6933.

|