pubs.acs.org/cm

## Ionic Conduction Mechanism in the Na2(B12H12)0.5(B10H10)0.5 closo -Borate Solid-State Electrolyte: Interplay of Disorder and Ion -Ion Interactions

Le ́ o Duche ̂ ne, † , ‡ Sarah Lunghammer, § Tatsiana Burankova, ∥ Wei-Chih Liao, ⊥ Jan Peter Embs, ∥ Christophe Cope ́ ret, ⊥ H. Martin R. Wilkening, § Arndt Remhof, * , † Hans Hagemann, ‡ and Corsin Battaglia †

† Empa, Swiss Federal Laboratories for Materials Science and Technology, 8600 Du ̈ bendorf, Switzerland

§ Christian Doppler Laboratory for Lithium Batteries, Institute for Chemistry and Technology of Materials, NAWI Graz, Graz University of Technology, 8010 Graz, Austria

‡ De ́ partement de Chimie-Physique, Universite ́ de Gene ̀ ve, 1211 Geneva 4, Switzerland

∥ Laboratory for Neutron Scattering and Imaging, Paul Scherrer Institute, 5232 Villigen PSI, Switzerland

⊥ Department of Chemistry and Applied Sciences, ETH Zurich, 8093 Zu ̈ rich, Switzerland

## * S Supporting Information

ABSTRACT: The c o n d u c t i o n mechanism o f Na2(B12H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5 , a particularly promising solid-state electrolyte for sodium-ion batteries, is elucidated. We /uniFB01 nd from electrochemical impedance spectroscopy that the temperaturedependent conductivity is characterized by three distinct regimes of conductivity. In the /uniFB01 rst regime, at temperatures below -50 ° C, conductivity remains low before a glasslike transition identi /uniFB01 ed by X-ray di /uniFB00 raction and calorimetry causes a faster increase of sodium conductivity through site disordering. The second regime of faster di /uniFB00 usion above -50 ° C is characterized by an apparent activation energy of 0.6 eV, higher than expected from the local microscopic barrier of 0.35 eV observed by, e.g., 23 Na nuclear magnetic resonance spin-lattice relaxation. This

mechanism of so-called correlated ion di /uniFB00 usion originates from the coupling of the cation and anion motion due to short-range ion -ion interactions combined with background energy /uniFB02 uctuations, which we can associate through quasi-elastic neutron scattering experiment to fast librations of the anions. In the third regime, at temperatures above 70 ° C, the thermal energy increases above the background energy /uniFB02 uctuations and the activation energy decreases to 0.34 eV, re /uniFB02 ecting the local energy barrier for noncorrelated ion di /uniFB00 usion. We discuss the link between this behavior and the di /uniFB00 erent frustrations responsible for the high conductivity of closo -borate electrolytes and show that our interpretation can also explain the complex conductivity behavior observed in related compounds.

## ■ INTRODUCTION

All-solid-state batteries (ASSBs) are intensively investigated as a next-generation energy-storage solution to overcome the limitations of current battery technology, i.e., to enable increased energy and power density while improving safety. 1 Ion dynamics, electrochemical stability, and interfacial properties of the solid-state electrolyte to be used in such devices are instrumental to the high performance of such ASSBs. 2 In particular, high ionic conductivity is an absolute requirement for the battery to be charged and discharged at a reasonable rate. Commercial lithium-ion batteries rely on organic liquid electrolytes to do so but cannot be operated neither at high temperature due to the electrolyte volatility and thermal instability nor at too low temperature because of a large increase of cell impedance. 3 These problems may be mitigated

by the use of a solid-state electrolyte 4 if such an electrolyte exhibits not only high ionic conductivity at room temperature but also low activation energy to maintain this high ionic conductivity over an extended temperature range. To ful /uniFB01 ll these criteria, the community has explored a large scope of materials in four main classes of compounds, i.e., oxide ceramics, sul /uniFB01 des and thiophosphates, polymers, and, more recently, complex boron hydrides. 5 -14

Among the latter, we recently reported an alternative solidstate electrolyte for ASSBs, namely, Na 2 (B12 H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5 , that combines high ionic conductivity of 0.9 mS cm -1 at 20 ° C

Received:

February 11, 2019

Revised:

March 29, 2019

Published:

April 9, 2019

2019, 31, 3449

3460

DOI: 10.1021/acs.chemmater.9b00610

Chem. Mater.

-

and a large electrochemical stability of 3 V including stability toward sodium metal. Na2(B12H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5 allowed for the fabrication and successful cycling of the /uniFB01 rst 3 V sodiumion all-solid-state battery using this type of material. 15,16 Temperature-dependent conductivity measurements on Na2(B12H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5 previously indicated that, contrarily to common thermally activated ionic conductivity with a single activation energy, Na 2 (B12 H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5 exhibits a complex conductivity behavior characterized by a gradually decreasing activation energy with increasing temperature.

Here we discuss the origin of this behavior from the study of structural and dynamical properties of the material. We show that it arises from the combined e /uniFB00 ects of ion -ion interactions and disorder leading to correlated ion motion. This behavior is inherent to the structural, chemical, and dynamical frustrations associated with high conductivity in closo -borates 17 and can also explain the non-Arrhenius conductivity behavior observed in related phases such as Li/Na2(CB11H12)(CB9H10) and Na3(BH4)(B12H12). 18,19

## ■ EXPERIMENTAL METHODS

Sample Preparation. Na2B12H12, Na2B10H10, NaCB11H12, and NaCB9H10 were purchased from Katchem. Na2B12H12 was used as received, whereas Na2B10H10, NaCB11H12 and NaCB9H10 were /uniFB01 rst dried at 160 ° C under vacuum (&lt;10 -3 mbar) for 6 h to remove water. The samples were prepared by mixing the appropriate amount of the precursor materials by mechanical milling in a Spex 8000 M shaker mill with 5 mm balls and a balls-to-sample mass ratio of 10 to 1 for 3 times of 15 min with 5 min breaks to avoid overheating. After milling the samples were heat-treated under vacuum at 270 and 200 ° C for 12 h to yield Na2(B12H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5 and Na2(CB11H12)(CB9H10), respectively. Samples were handled in an argon/uniFB01 lled glovebox (O2, H2O &lt; 0.1 ppm) to avoid exposure to moisture.

Electrochemical Impedance Spectroscopy. Electrical impedance spectroscopy was performed on a Novocontrol potentiostat in a frequency range from 10 MHz to 10 mHz with a voltage amplitude of 10 mV. The samples were placed in a custom-designed airtight cell with two parallel 10 mm gold blocking electrodes. Temperature was controlled by a /uniFB02 ow of freshly evaporated nitrogen gas, and the temperature was measured by a thermocouple placed close to the sample. The samples were /uniFB01 rst cooled to -100 ° C in 10 ° C steps before being heated to 180 ° C in 10 ° C steps. All analyzed data were extracted from the /uniFB01 rst heating ramp, after the initial cooling to -100 ° C. The sample consisted of 5 mm diameter pellets with a thickness of ∼ 1 mm after pressing under a pressure of ∼ 300 MPa. One hundred nm of gold was sputtered on each side of the pellet to ensure good electrical contact.

Nuclear Magnetic Resonance. For experiments carried out under magic-angle spinning (MAS) conditions, the samples were measured using a 3.2 mm LT-MAS probe. Measurements were performed on a Bruker Ascend 600DNP nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectrometer. The 1 H, 11 B, and 23 Na NMR spectra were recorded at 10 kHz MAS rates for single-pulse experiments using pulse lengths &lt; π /6 and high power proton decoupling in the case of boron (no in /uniFB02 uence observed on line width for 23 Na NMR spectra with or without decoupling of 1 H). Su /uniFB03 ciently long relaxation delays for full recovery of signal intensities were applied.

For experiments carried out under static conditions, the powder sample was /uniFB01 re-sealed in a quartz glass ampule to protect it from moisture. The 1 H and 23 Na rates were measured on a Bruker Avance 300 solid-state NMR spectrometer connected to a shimmed 7 T magnet, and the 11 B rates were measured on a Bruker Avance 500 solid-state NMR spectrometer with a shimmed 11.7 T magnet. We employed Bruker broadband probes. For both static and MAS experiments, the temperature in the sample chamber was controlled with a type T thermocouple with the help of a heater and a /uniFB02 ow of freshly evaporated nitrogen gas.

A saturation recovery pulse sequence was used to measure the relaxation of the z -component of the macroscopic magnetic moment M ( t ); prior to the detection of Mz ( t ), any longitudinal contribution was destroyed through a comb of 10 closely spaced 90 ° pulses separated by 80 μ s. The waiting time t was varied from a few μ s to 10 s to probe the exponential recovery of Mz ( t ). Depending on temperature, the 90 ° pulse length slightly varied from 1 to 4.5 μ s. For the spin-lock NMR experiments, a constant radio frequency signal was applied to yield the desired spin-lock frequency of 10 and 15 kHz.

Powder X-ray Di /uniFB00 raction. Powder X-ray di /uniFB00 raction (XRD) patterns were collected at the Swiss Norwegian Beamlines (SNBL) at the European Synchrotron Research Radiation Facility (ESRF) in Grenoble, France. 20 The wavelength at the time of the acquisition was 0.71414 Å. The 1D patterns were integrated from 2D images acquired on a PILATUS 2 M image plate detector placed at a distance of 411 mm. The sample detector geometry was calibrated with a LaB6 NIST standard. Samples were sealed into glass capillaries /uniFB01 lled under helium atmosphere. Temperature was controlled by a precalibrated cryostat (temperature range: 100 -500 K) and a heat blower (temperature range: room temperature to 500 ° C). For the heat blower, temperature was adjusted from the extracted lattice parameter of a Ag standard measured under identical conditions. The re /uniFB01 nements (LeBail /uniFB01 ts) were performed using the Fullprof re /uniFB01 nement software 21 re /uniFB01 ning lattice parameters, shape parameters, and background only.

Di /uniFB00 erential Scanning Calorimetry. Di /uniFB00 erential scanning calorimetry (DSC) measurements were conducted on a Netzsch STA449 F3 Jupiter, using a low-temperature silver oven. The samples ( ∼ 10 mg) were handled in Al crucibles and cycled two times at heating and cooling rates of 10 K min -1 between -100 and 200 ° C under He /uniFB02 ow. For all measurements, the data were corrected by an empty pan scan measured under identical conditions.

Quasi-elastic Neutron Scattering. Quasi-elastic neutron scattering (QENS) measurements were performed on the time-of/uniFB02 ight spectrometers FOCUS at Paul Scherrer Institute in Switzerland 22 with the wavelength of incident neutrons λ = 4.0 Å. This setting provided the energy resolution of 0.220 meV (full width at half-maximum (fwhm)) and the accessible Q -range of 0.5 -2.5 Å -1 . QENS spectra were recorded for a sample with natural boron containing 20% of 10 B, a strong neutron absorber. QENS spectra are dominated by the large incoherent neutron-scattering cross section of hydrogen. The presence of 10 B only causes a very weak signal. For this reason the sample was loaded in a /uniFB02 at slab container and measured in the re /uniFB02 ection geometry. This led to the loss of spectral information in the small Q -range up to 1.2 Å -1 but allowed for obtaining reasonably good statistics for the remaining Q-groups.

Additional runs with a vanadium standard and the empty sample containers were carried out to perform typical corrections for experimental distortions. The procedure included vanadium normalization, detector-e /uniFB03 ciency correction, and background subtraction. Taking into account the large absorption cross section of the sample, we performed the calculation of the self-shielding and self-attenuation factors with the help of the McStas software (http://mcstas.org). The DAVE program 23 was used for both the data reduction of the FOCUS spectra and the preliminary examination of all data sets at individual Q -groups. As the next step, the QENS spectra were analyzed in a program module 24 that performs two-dimensional surface /uniFB01 ts to evaluate the relaxation times. This approach allows one to obtain more stable and consistent results, as simultaneous /uniFB01 tting, with both E and Q as independent variables, reduces the total number of adjustable parameters. The increase of the narrow component with Q is programmed directly in the /uniFB01 t function according to the scattering law provided in the Supporting Information.

## ■ RESULTS

Figure 1a shows the real part of the frequency-dependent complex conductivity of Na2(B12H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5 measured by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy at temperatures ranging from -100 to 180 ° C, in steps of 10 ° C. The curves show characteristic features for an ionic conductor with a

Figure 1. (a) Real part of the conductivity vs frequency recorded at temperatures ranging from -100 to 180 ° C (measured in steps of 10 ° C). The dashed gray line and orange arrow are guides to the eye highlighting the frequency-independent region from which σ dc was extracted. (b) Corresponding Arrhenius plot of σ dc T vs 1000/ T with local linear /uniFB01 ts and corresponding activation energies.

nearly frequency-independent conductivity plateau and a temperature-dependent onset to a dispersive regime showing up at su /uniFB03 ciently high frequencies. At high temperatures, a frequency-dependent tail is also visible toward low frequencies, originating from polarization e /uniFB00 ects of the blocking electrodes used. At all temperatures, only a single conductivity plateau can be observed in the studied frequency range, indicating that a single contribution is responsible for Na + di /uniFB00 usion in Na2(B12H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5 . This is in line with the recently calculated 25 and measured 26 bulk modulus of closo -borates, which indicates high ductility for this class of solid electrolytes, preventing the formation of pronounced grain boundaries that would a /uniFB00 ect ion transport and produce an additional conductivity plateau.

σ dc values, referring to macroscopic ion transport, can be extracted from the conductivity plateaus at each temperature. The resulting values are plotted in Figure 1b in an Arrhenius plot showing σ dc T vs 1000/ T , where T is the absolute temperature in Kelvin. Strikingly, the temperature-dependent conductivity of Na2(B12H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5 does not follow a simple Arrhenius behavior as could be expected from the single conductivity plateau observed in Figure 1a. Instead, it passes through three di /uniFB00 erent regimes at very low (below -50 ° C), low to intermediate ( -50 to 70 ° C), and high temperature (above 70 ° C) characterized by di /uniFB00 erent activation energies. These three regimes will be further referred to as regimes I, II, and III, respectively, as depicted in Figure 1b. Linear /uniFB01 ts of ln( σ dc T ) versus 1000/ T yield E a, σ low -T = 0.60 eV in regime II

and E a, σ high -T = 0.34 eV in regime III. The activation energy in regime I is lower than that in regime II. However, the temperatures accessible to our experiment are not low enough to allow for a reliable determination of the activation energy in regime I.

Drastic variations of the ionic conductivity in closo -borates have already been observed and linked to structural phase transitions triggering fast anion rotations that facilitate cation di /uniFB00 usion. 9 -12,27 However, di /uniFB00 erential calorimetry experiments previously performed on Na2(B12H12)0.5(B10H10)0.5 down to -100 ° C showed no sign of such a /uniFB01 rst-order transition. 15 Xray di /uniFB00 raction measured from -170 to 450 ° C is shown in Figure 2a and con /uniFB01 rms that the face-centered cubic structure

Figure 2. (a) Variable-temperature X-ray di /uniFB00 raction measured between -170 and 450 ° C; the corresponding lattice parameters extracted from LeBail /uniFB01 ts are also shown. The orange dashed line marks the change between data measured using a cryostat or a heat blower to control the temperature. (b) Volumetric thermal expansion coe /uniFB03 cient calculated from the re /uniFB01 ned lattice parameter compared with DSC data for two consecutive heating cycles. (c) X-ray di /uniFB00 raction pattern at three selected temperatures showing relative intensity changes along preferential crystallographic directions.

of this material is maintained over a broad temperature range with no evidence of symmetry reduction at low temperature or phase separation at high temperature. We note that a small additional re /uniFB02 ection can be observed below 100 ° C, near the main re /uniFB02 ection at ∼ 7 ° , corresponding to a small amount of unreacted Na2B10H10 that takes the same structure as Na2(B12H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5 above 100 ° C. The lattice parameter of Na2(B12H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5 was extracted from the di /uniFB00 racto-

grams using a sequential Le Bail re /uniFB01 nement at each temperature, considering a single face-centered cubic phase. The extracted values are shown alongside the di /uniFB00 raction pattern in Figure 2a. Analogously to the conductivity data, we observe three regimes in the evolution of the lattice parameter as a function of temperature. Regime I, i.e., if we consider temperatures below -50 ° C, corresponds to a slow latticeexpansion regime with a volumetric coe /uniFB03 cient of thermal expansion α on the order of 1 × 10 -4 K -1 , as shown in Figure 2b. At approximately -50 ° C, the volumetric coe /uniFB03 cient of thermal expansion doubles, reaching 2 × 10 -4 K -1 at -30 ° C, and the material enters regime II. This behavior is reminiscent of a vitreous or glass transition. 28 We also note that, for Na2B12H12 in the monoclinic low conducting phase at 300 K, we have α = 1.2 × 10 -4 K -1 , while in the high-temperature, conducting phase it is ∼ 2 × 10 -4 K -1 . 26

To con /uniFB01 rm the assumption of a glass transition, we have performed di /uniFB00 erential calorimetry measurement for Na2(B12H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5 at low temperature. The results are presented for two consecutive heating cycles in the lower panel of Figure 2b (an enlarged view near the transition is given in Figure S1, along with the cooling cycle). Thermal characterization was carried out at temperatures close to that of the change of expansion coe /uniFB03 cient and reveals a very similar behavior with a characteristic increase of the heat /uniFB02 ow around -30 ° C. The e /uniFB00 ect is reversible and observed in two consecutive heating cycles, although it is not visible upon cooling, likely because of hysteresis e /uniFB00 ects. This behavior indicates a steplike increase of the speci /uniFB01 c heat capacity of the material attributed to a gain in degrees of freedom in the dynamics of the constituent ions. We note that the heat signature in Figure 2b could be reproduced in independent DSC measurements (not shown here). It also corresponds to the changes observed in both lattice-expansion coe /uniFB03 cient and conductivity at the same temperature. This transition is also accompanied by a distinct increase of the ( hk 0) Bragg re /uniFB02 ections as the temperature is increased above the glasslike transition (see Figure 2c). This observation indicates a change in site occupancy of the sodium ions, as has been observed in related compounds. 29 Therefore, the glass transition is interpreted as a change of sodium site ordering in the structure. The glass transition could also be linked to an activation of the anion rotation, which may be frozen in static equilibrium position at very low temperature. However, Raman spectra acquired at both cryogenic condition (70 K) and room temperature do not show any change of the local symmetry of the anions (see Figure S2). We can thus discard complete freezing of the anions ' rotational degrees of freedom as this would induce distortions in the B -H bonds and thus cause a splitting of the Raman bands.

Finally, at higher temperatures ranging from 100 to 150 ° C, the lattice expansion in Figure 2a gradually decreases again and the material enters regime III. This transition is not accompanied by a thermal event or by any signi /uniFB01 cant change in the intensities of the Bragg re /uniFB02 ections but corresponds to the reduction of activation energy observed in conductivity in a similar temperature range. The three ionic conductivity regimes identi /uniFB01 ed earlier are thus directly re /uniFB02 ected in the structural behavior of Na 2 (B12 H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5 .

As mentioned earlier, this thermal and structural behavior is reminiscent to that of glasses. Many ionic conducting glasses also exhibit non-Arrhenius conductivity with the archetypical example of the series of silver conducting glasses reported by

Kincs and Martin. 30 This behavior has been interpreted in terms of strong interactions between moving ions as they di /uniFB00 use through the disordered structure. These ion -ion interactions may arise from both self-correlations of the moving cations as well as cation -anion correlations. Charge carrier di /uniFB00 usion is thus nonrandom but correlated, and memory e /uniFB00 ects play an important role, particularly at short time scales (or high frequency). This causes the conductivity to show frequency dependence above a certain crossover frequency. These interactions also a /uniFB00 ect the macroscopic electrical response of the material, causing the electric /uniFB01 eld relaxation function to follow a nonexponential but stretchedexponential decay ( ∝ e ( -t / τ ) β , 0 &lt; β &lt; 1). In contrast, uncorrelated jump di /uniFB00 usion is characterized by a random particle walk and would result in an exponential electric relaxation function ( ∝ e -t / τ , i.e., β = 1), producing frequencyindependent conductivity isotherms. 31 The nature and shape of the underlying electrical relaxation (or correlation) function thus decisively determines the overall macroscopic materials response. Di /uniFB00 erent approaches to describe such correlations, based on microscopic di /uniFB00 usion models or on the macroscopic electrical response, have been proposed. 32 Among the latter, the coupling model introduced by Ngai et al. has been particularly successfully when applied in describing non-Arrhenius conductivity in several ionic conductors. 33 -36

The appropriate quantity to analyze the e /uniFB00 ect of correlations is the complex electric modulus M ( ω ), obtained from electrochemical impedance spectroscopy, which is directly related to the aforementioned electrical correlation functions. Recently, Cuervo-Reyes et al. described an analytical approximation based on the coupling model that can be used to /uniFB01 t M ( ω ) data with high accuracy while taking into account correlated ion motion. 36 In Figure 3, the frequency

Figure 3. Imaginary part of the electric modulus M ″ vs frequency at -80 ° C. Fitting of M ′′ using the function introduced by CuervoReyes et al. 36 is shown with a plain blue line. For comparison, the conductivity isotherm recorded at -80 ° C is also shown. The dashed blue line shows power-law /uniFB01 t in the frequency-dependent region of σ ( ω ). In the high-frequency region, both M ( ω ) and σ ( ω ) can be described by the same β value.

dependence of the imaginary part M ″ of the complex modulus M of Na2(B12H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5 is shown. The data shown in log scale have the characteristic shape expected for M ″ with two asymptotic regions at low and high frequencies corresponding to a power law dependence of M ″ on frequency. Fitting of the data using the aforementioned model shows that at low frequency the modulus follows simple linear frequency dependence. This linear behavior is characteristic for a di /uniFB00 usive

behavior of the charge carriers and corresponds to the frequency-independent conductivity region in Figure 1a. Contrarily, M ″ follows a sublinear power law frequency dependence at high frequency, which corresponds to a frequency-dependent conductivity regime. Here a power law with M ″ ( ω ) ∝ ω -0.60 and σ ′ ( ω ) ∝ ω 0.43 represents the data best.

The power law dependences of σ ′ ( ω ) ∝ ω 1 -β and M ″ ( ω ) ∝ ω -β are a direct consequence of the aforementioned stretchedexponential relaxation. The coupling model relates nonArrhenius conductivity behavior to ion -ion interactions with the power β being a measure of the strength of the correlation. At low temperature where ion -ion interactions play a signi /uniFB01 cant role, the activation energy is increased by a factor 1/ β . The Arrhenius /uniFB01 ts in Figure 1b give a ratio of 0.56 between highand low-temperature activation energy, excluding the very-low-temperature regime below the glass transition. This ratio is in excellent agreement with the result obtained from the /uniFB01 t in Figure 3, which yields β = 0.6. There exist controversies to whether conclusions about ion transport can be best drawn from the analysis of the imaginary part of the electric modulus or the real part of the conductivity. 37,38 Still, a consistent value of β = 0.57 is also obtained from the linear /uniFB01 t of σ ′ ( ω ). In addition, the modulus /uniFB01 tting model allows one to extract the high-frequency dielectric constant ε ∞ , which can be empirically related to the activation energy for ionic conductivity. 39 Here, we /uniFB01 nd ε ∞ = 4.84, which is in line with an activation energy of ∼ 0.3 eV. These results show with high consistency that the change in activation energy observed around 50 -70 ° C originates from a single di /uniFB00 usion process involving signi /uniFB01 cant ion -ion correlation. Interestingly, the shape of the modulus M ″ peaks does not change signi /uniFB01 cantly at temperatures below and above the glasslike transition. The transition, while a /uniFB00 ecting the mobility of the Na + ions, does not signi /uniFB01 cantly a /uniFB00 ect the interactions between the di /uniFB00 erent ions, and the value of β remains unchanged. This behavior is expected as the crystal structure does not change.

A microscopic view into the ion motion dynamics is thus needed to better understand the correlations observed in the macroscopic materials response. We performed solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) studies, speci /uniFB01 cally NMR spin-lattice relaxation (SLR), to characterize ion dynamics in Na2(B12H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5 . SLR probes the relaxation of the macroscopic magnetic moment, i.e., the sum of the magnetic moments of nuclear spins, after they have been brought out of equilibrium through appropriate radio frequency pulses. At su /uniFB03 ciently high temperature, the characteristic relaxation time T 1 (or relaxation rate R 1 = 1/ T 1 ) is mainly in /uniFB02 uenced by di /uniFB00 usive motion either carried out by the ion itself or sensed by the ion if neighboring species are involved in rapid motional processes. Thus, SLR has proven to be a very powerful technique to collect details of ion dynamics in various classes of ionic conductors. 40,41

Similarly to the electric modulus, the relaxation rate is related to an underlying motional correlation function, which takes the form of a single exponential in the case of isotropic random particle jumps as was introduced by Bloembergen, Purcell, and Pound (BPP). 42 This type of transport yields symmetric temperature-dependent relaxation rate peaks. In the case of correlated motion or for ion conductors with di /uniFB00 erences between short-range and long-range ionic di /uniFB00 usion, asymmetric peaks are frequently obtained. The /uniFB02 anks of these peaks yield two activation energies, E a low -T and E a high -T , describing jump processes in the regimes τ c ω 0 ≫ 1 and τ c ω 0 ≪ 1, respectively. ω 0 denotes the spin Larmor or precession frequency, and τ c denotes the motional correlation time, which is on the order of the residence time τ . Thus, the two regimes characterized by E a low -T and E a high -T are governed by either short-ranged (lowT /uniFB02 ank) or long-range di /uniFB00 usion (highT /uniFB02 ank), respectively. The asymmetry in the R 1 rate peak, given by E a high -T &gt; E a low -T (3D di /uniFB00 usion), is also characterized by a β parameter that can be seen as a measure of the deviation from simple BPP behavior: E a low -T / β = E a high -T .

It is important to note that the correlation function for dielectric relaxation (in the electric modulus formalism) and nuclear spin relaxation are related but not exactly identical as they originate from a macroscopic electric /uniFB01 eld relaxation and a sum of microscopic spin relaxation, respectively. A link between both functions can be made using appropriate models for ion di /uniFB00 usion, but this is beyond the scope of this Article and we will limit ourselves to a qualitative comparison. 38

We carried out relaxation studies of all three 1 H, 11 B, and 23 Na nuclei in both static and magic-angle spinning (MAS) conditions to access di /uniFB00 erent frequency and temperature ranges (see Experimental Methods section for details). The upper panel of Figure 4 shows the variable-temperature 23 Na

Figure 4. 23 Na and 1 H NMR spin-lattice relaxation rates as a function of inverse temperature. The rates were recorded under both static and MAS conditions ( ν rotation = 10 kHz). Solid and dashed lines show linear /uniFB01 ts and BPP /uniFB01 ts, respectively. The corresponding activation energies are also depicted.

NMR spin-lattice relaxation (SLR) rates measured at a frequency of 79 MHz. For comparison, 23 Na NMR SLR rates measured at higher magnetic /uniFB01 eld (i.e., 160 MHz) and under MAS conditions (see earlier) are also included. In the limit τ c ω 0 ≫ 1, NMR is sensitive to local Na jumps or rotational motions of the anions in Na 2 (B12 H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5 . The activation energies, being smaller than 0.25 eV, point to rapid dynamics that governs spin relaxation. Rotating the

powder sample at 10 kHz under MAS conditions results in smaller (apparent) activation energy as dipolar interactions are already eliminated to a certain degree. These interactions, on the other hand, fully induce spin-lattice relaxation in the experiments carried out at 79 MHz.

The di /uniFB00 usion-induced 23 Na NMR SLR rates pass through maxima at ca. 283 K (79 MHz) and at ca. 295 K (160 MHz). At the temperature T max where the peak shows up, the condition τω 0 = 1 holds; thus, we expect the rate peaks to shift to higher T with increasing Larmor frequency. The jump rate 1/ τ at T max is on the order of 5 × 10 8 s -1 . Values of 10 9 s -1 show fast translational and/or rotational movements; for ionic di /uniFB00 usion they point to conductivities in the order of 0.1 -1 mS cm -1 .

At temperatures higher than T max , we observe a second relaxation rate peak, which is due to a slower but additional di /uniFB00 usion process. Measurements of NMR SLR rates in the rotating frame ( R 1 ρ ), which are sensitive to slower ion dynamics in the kHz range, indicate that the second shallow peak might be attributed to a relatively slow dynamic process possibly characterized by reduced dimensionality (see Figure S3a). Although this second process masks the highT /uniFB02 ank of the main peak, we approximated the /uniFB01 rst peak with a modi /uniFB01 ed BPP model that takes into account correlated motion. The dashed -dotted lines in Figure 4b show appropriate BPP-type relaxation curves and yield activation energies E a high -T of 0.37 eV (79 MHz) and 0.33 eV (160 MHz), respectively. These values are in agreement with the activation energy of 0.34 eV extracted from conductivity measurements, which were carried out in the same temperature range. 11 B NMR R 1 measurements, for which the whole rate peak is seen, also yield ca. 0.33 eV in the limit τ c ω 0 ≪ 1 (see Figure S3b). The fast relaxation process seen by 23 Na NMR might indeed mirror macroscopic ionic transport in Na2(B12H12)0.5(B10H10)0.5. The asymmetry parameter β is given by 0.56 (160 MHz) and 0.67 (79 MHz), respectively. β = 0.56, which is also seen in 11 B NMR, is in agreement with the /uniFB01 ndings from electric modulus peaks.

Without any further restrictions of the BPP-type approximations shown in Figure 4b, we see that for di /uniFB00 erent frequencies the /uniFB01 ts tend to merge at high temperature, which is characteristic for 3D di /uniFB00 usion. However, as the highT /uniFB02 ank remains inaccessible due to the presence of another relaxation source at higher T , we cannot make conclusions about the dimensionality of the di /uniFB00 usion process that governs the main R 1 23 Na NMR peak. For 2D, in general, one expects E a high -T to be smaller than E a low -T if E a low -T represents the activation energy of a BPP-type peak for uncorrelated 3D motion. Moreover, the R 1 in the highT limit should depend logarithmically on Larmor frequency. This behavior has rarely been documented in the literature so far.

As 23 Na NMR spin-lattice relaxation is not only in /uniFB02 uenced by the di /uniFB00 usive motion of the Na + ions themselves but also induced by the dynamics of the surrounding atoms in Na2(B12H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5 , we measured 1 H and 11 B NMR spin-lattice relaxation rates to complement the 23 Na study. Comparing results from 1 H NMR with those from 23 Na NMR can help one to better understand the relationship between cation and anion dynamics in the closo -borate. The results presented in the lower panel of Figure 4 show that, similar to 23 Na SLR, the 1 H NMR R 1 rates measured at 300 MHz pass through a maximum at room temperature. Hence, 23 Na and 1 H NMR SLR appears to be induced by a very similar if not the same relaxation process. The activation energy of the lowT R 1

/uniFB02 ank is ca. 0.19 eV and thus smaller than that on the highT (0.25 eV) /uniFB02 ank if we use once again a BPP-type expression, which allows for correlated motion, to parametrize the peak. The lowT activation energy is comparable to that seen by 11 B NMR (0.16 eV). In the case of 1 H NMR, β turned out to be 0.76, somewhat higher compared to 23 Na NMR (and 11 B NMR). Careful inspection of the 1 H NMR R 1 data reveals that at the highest temperatures the curves deviate from the highT /uniFB02 ank of the rate peak. This behavior, although much less pronounced, resembles that of the 23 Na SLR NMR peak. Thus, the main rate peak seen at low T for both 1 H and 23 Na is most likely linked to long-range translational di /uniFB00 usion of the Na ions. Additionally, as the protons are a part of the larger anions, they might also be in /uniFB02 uenced by rotational motions of these components. The dynamics of the cation and the anions are thus closely linked to each other. Such a link has already been proposed for closo -borate salts as well as other solid-state ion conductors with various rotating anion species. 10,11,27,43 -45 This is further con /uniFB01 rmed by the line width analysis of 1D MAS NMR spectra, which shows that the regime of extreme narrowing caused by translational and rotational dynamics is reached at the same temperature for 23 Na and 11 B (see Figure S4). The NMR results are thus in line with the /uniFB01 nding from the electric modulus analysis. Speci /uniFB01 cally, the main contribution to long-range sodium di /uniFB00 usion is characterized by a correlated ion motion visible in the coupling of the 23 Na and 1 H spin-lattice relaxation and, thus, the coupling of the cation and anion motion. This correlation is characterized by similar β values and gives further con /uniFB01 rmation that the change of activation energy between regimes II and III may be explained by a single di /uniFB00 usion process.

We also measured R 1 rates down to temperatures as low as 100 K. At such low T , the hopping processes of the sodium ions between lattice sites rarely occur on the NMR time scale. These temperatures are well below the glasslike transition observed by XRD and calorimetry, and it is interesting to notice that for Na 2 (B12 H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5 no signi /uniFB01 cant changes in the 23 Na (and 1 H) NMR R 1 relaxation rates are seen at the transition temperature. Therefore, although the transition may a /uniFB00 ect ion dynamics, the time scale at which the e /uniFB00 ect is signi /uniFB01 cant does not fall within that of NMR. Still, below -100 ° C a signi /uniFB01 cant change in R 1 is noticed; at such low T , the rate shows a very weak dependence on temperature. Linear /uniFB01 ts in this region yield activation energies of 0.031 and 0.034 eV for 23 Na and 1 H, respectively. In this regime, where the residence time of the sodium ions is expected to be on the order of 0.1 s (see Figure S5), relaxation is mostly a /uniFB00 ected by background /uniFB02 uctuations arising from the dynamically disordered energy landscape. 46 An interesting link can be made here with Monte Carlo simulations from Maass et al. 47 that were carried out in an attempt to give a microscopic interpretation of nonArrhenius conductivity behavior in glasses. These simulations show that the combination of energetic disorder and Coulomb interaction are responsible for this behavior. In particular, they relate the crossover temperature with energy disorder in the lattice and /uniFB01 nd that k b Tx , where k b is the Boltzmann constant and Tx is the crossover temperature, falls in the order of magnitude of a parameter σ e, where σ e 2 is the variance of a Gaussian distribution of lattice site energies. The resulting interpretation is that both disorder and Coulomb interaction a /uniFB00 ect ion mobility for T ≪ Tx , whereas for T ≫ Tx the disorder becomes negligible with respect to thermal energy and the activation energy is determined by Coulomb interactions

alone. In our case, the crossover temperature between regimes II and III is ∼ 50 -70 ° C, which corresponds to thermal energies of 0.028 -0.030 eV, close to the aforementioned activation energies of 0.031 and 0.034 eV seen from NMR (equivalent to temperature in the range 85 -120 ° C).

NMR spectroscopy thus allowed for highlighting the coupling of the anion and cation dynamics i n Na2(B12H12)0.5(B10H10)0.5 on the MHz scales and for identifying background energy /uniFB02 uctuations responsible for the crossover between regimes II and III. Cation dynamics sensed by NMR concur with the results obtained from impedance spectroscopy. Nevertheless, to infer on the nature of this coupling and energy /uniFB02 uctuations, notably in terms of the geometry of anion reorientations in Na 2 (B12 H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5 , which NMR spin-lattice relaxation does not directly provide, we performed quasi-elastic neutron scattering (QENS) experiments. QENS is another spectroscopic technique that provides access to the relaxation (correlation) function, namely, to its Fourier transform referred to as dynamic structure factor ( S ( Q , E )). QENS probes both time and spatial characteristics of microscopic relaxation processes, but it operates on a much shorter picosecond time scale as compared to NMR and dielectric spectroscopy. Being particularly sensitive to the large incoherent scattering cross section of hydrogen, QENS has been quite successful in describing the ion dynamics in various boron hydride materials. 45,48,49

In contrast to the pristine materials Na2B12H12 and Na2B10H10, 48,49 the quasi-elastic broadening of the equimolar mixture can already be detected on the picosecond time scale in the temperature range of 0 -120 ° C, in agreement with the overall faster dynamics observed by NMR and impedance spectroscopy. The information about the geometry of di /uniFB00 usion processes can be retrieved from the ratio between the inelastically (quasi-elastically) scattered neutrons and the total number of neutrons, referred to as elastic incoherent structure factor (EISF). Figure 5a demonstrates that the decay of EISF with the momentum transfer Q becomes more pronounced upon temperature increase, which corresponds to an enlarging of elementary steps of molecular motions on the picosecond time scale. Nevertheless, even at the highest measured temperature, the EISF of Na2(B12H12)0.5(B10H10)0.5 never reaches the EISF curves of the high-temperature phases of Na2B12H12 ( T = 347 ° C) and Na2B10H10 ( T = 227 ° C), 48,49 derived for predominantly uniaxial reorientations around di /uniFB00 erent axes of symmetry (dark lines in Figure 5a). This means that the full rotations of the B10H10 -2 and B12H12 -2 anions are relatively slow and that they rather perform librational motions. 45 One can also describe these dynamics as overdamped anion vibrational modes due to soft rotational potentials and larger moments of inertia. 48,50 However, assuming only this type of motion, we obtained an erroneous temperature dependence of the relaxation times, tending to show the slowing down of dynamics on heating. This problem can be resolved if at least two relaxation processes with di /uniFB00 erent activation energies are considered. For this reason, we applied a convolution of two model dynamic structure factors for the analysis of our QENS spectra (Figure S6, see Supporting Information for details). The /uniFB01 rst one describes the fast librational motion characterized by the mean-squared displacement (&lt; u 2 &gt;) of particles within rotational potential wells and by the average relaxation time τ lib = /uni210F / Γ , where Γ is the half width at half-maximum (hwhm) of the quasi-elastic line width. The second dynamic structure factor accounts for

Figure 5. (a) Experimental EISF data obtained as a result of the preliminary model-independent analysis with a single (averaged) quasi-elastic contribution at individual Q-groups, at temperatures between 275 and 390 K. Colored dashed lines are only a guide to the eye for the two extreme temperatures. Dark lines are taken from the model of Verdal et al. 49 and Soloninin et al. 48 for uniaxial rotations of B10H10 -2 and B12H12 -2 ions in their respective high-temperature phases. (b) Relaxation time and half width at half-maximum as a function of inverse temperature for the uniaxial rotations around C4 and C5 axes and the fast librational motion, respectively, obtained as a result of the ( E , Q ) surface /uniFB01 ts in the Q -range of 1.3 -2.5 A -1 .

the uniaxial rotations around C4 and C5 axes for B 10H10 -2 and B12H12 -2 , respectively, similar to the models used for the pristine materials at elevated temperatures. 48,49 Other possible uniaxial mechanisms of anion dynamics were considered as well, but the statistical quality of the data does not allow a unique assignment. As we were not able to separate the B10H10 -2 and B12H12 -2 contributions from QENS, we used an average residence time τ to describe the uniaxial rotations of B10H10 -2 and B12H12 -2 .

We note that some di /uniFB00 erences in the dynamics of the three inequivalent boron nuclei can be observed in NMR (Figure S4). It can be seen that the line-narrowing process associated with the boron of the B 12H12 2 -anion has already started at the lowest temperature, whereas a clear plateau of almost constant line width is observed for the two boron atoms on the C4 rotation axis of the B 10H10 2 -anion (see Figure S4c). The other eight atoms of B 10H10 2 -follow an intermediate behavior. This observation indicates that the B 12H12 2 -dynamics reaches the time scale to which NMR is sensitive at a lower temperature than that of B 10H10 2 -. This is in contrast with what is observed in the pristine compound. 13,48 Additionally, the dynamic of B10H10 2 -may be of two types, with rotations along a C4

DOI: 10.1021/acs.chemmater.9b00610

rotation axis and another one perpendicular to this axis setting in at higher temperatures. This idea has also been proposed by Soloninin et al. 48 Further QENS study with 11 B enriched samples would be needed to better understand this behavior. For this study, an evaluation of the averaged dynamics seen by the sodium ion is su /uniFB03 cient.

Figure 5b demonstrates the temperature dependence of the evaluated parameters, i.e., the average residence time and half width at half-maximum Γ as a function of inverse temperature for the uniaxial rotations and the fast librational motion, respectively. Though Γ is also linked to an average residence time, we have chosen this representation in order to present the data simultaneously, in particular to highlight the Arrhenius behavior of the librations. The average residence time of the uniaxial anion rotation follows an Arrhenius dependence with the activation energy of 0.24 ± 0.01 eV, which is close to the value obtained from the lowT R 1 /uniFB02 ank of the corresponding 23 Na SLR NMR peak but greater than the corresponding values for 1 H and 11 B. If τ values are extrapolated to the lowtemperature range, it becomes evident that the onset of uniaxial rotation can be related to the temperature dependence of the lowT /uniFB02 anks of the R 1(1/ T ) peaks. The activation energy of the uniaxial rotations for the studied material of 0.24 eV lies in between the value for Na2B12H12 of 0.27 eV 13,49 and the one for Na2B10H10 of 0.12 eV, 48 which is expected for a mixed composition. In general, the QENS spectra of Na2(B12H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5 demonstrate enhanced anion reorientational dynamics in comparison to the pristine materials, as can be inferred from Figure S7. The faster librational motion is, on the other hand, characterized by an activation energy of only 0.021 ± 0.002 eV, which is consistent with the shallow temperature dependence of the 23 Na and 1 H NMR SLR R 1 rates at temperatures lower than -100 ° C. Thus, the time characteristics retrieved from our QENS analysis are in very good agreement with the NMR results; in addition, neutron scattering provides additional information about the underlying mechanism of reorientations. Importantly, low temperature spin-lattice relaxation observed in NMR is caused by fast libration of the anions that induce dynamical background energy /uniFB02 uctuations. Additionally, we /uniFB01 nd that the rotation of the anions is restricted to speci /uniFB01 c symmetry axis and is not isotropic, which points toward a cation -anion docking -undocking di /uniFB00 usion mechanism, as has been proposed before. 17

## ■ DISCUSSION

I t i s i n t e r e s t i n g t o r e l a t e t h e properties of Na2(B12H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5 to those of the Na2B12H12 and Na2B10H10 precursor phases, which both undergo structural phase transitions to a highly ionically conducting phase at 260 and 100 ° C, respectively. Above these relatively low temperatures, signi /uniFB01 cant rotational and site disorder are present. In addition, a low-pressure phase transition has been described recently for Na2B12H12 at a low pressure of 0.4 GPa. 26 Aniya 51 discussed the importance of low-pressure phase transitions for superionicity with AgI given as a characteristic example. A lowpressure phase transition may point toward signi /uniFB01 cant local bond frustration, which increases with pressure until the structure has to change. These frustrations can also be induced by thermal /uniFB02 uctuations that locally change the bond distance similarly to an applied pressure, resulting in a dynamically changing bond character, a feature which promotes superionicity. In the case of AgI, the silver -iodine bond /uniFB02 uctuates between ionic or covalent character. Sodium on the other hand is an alkali metal with only one 1s electron in the outer shell. As cation, Na + loses this electron and is not prone to covalent bonding. Therefore, the frustration has another origin in this case related to the competition between ideal anion site symmetry and local anion -cation bonding, as pointed out by Kweon et al. 17 In fact, a gradual transition between trigonal and octahedral interstitials is observed in two consecutive highpressure phases of Na 2 B12 H12, while locally the sodium cation coordination changes from edge to face coordination with regards to the B12H12 2 -anion. 26 We suspect similar lowpressure phase transition to occur in Na 2 B10 H10.

In the mixed Na2(B12H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5 phase, chemical pressure in the form of strain is induced by the presence of B12H12 2 -anion in the high-temperature structure of pure Na2B10H10; in that case, the face-centered cubic (FCC) structure with high anion rotational disorder is stabilized at room temperature. Because the mixed phase is a close-packed structure that already exists in a highly disordered state with fast anion rotations and cation di /uniFB00 usion, the frustration does not result in structural phase transitions but is rather re /uniFB02 ected in a complex dynamical behavior summarized in Figure 6.

Figure 6. Figure highlighting the di /uniFB00 erent processes that result in changes of activation energy in the temperature-dependent conductivity of Na 2 (B12H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5 . The di /uniFB00 erent processes along with the technique that allowed for identifying them are highlighted at the speci /uniFB01 c temperature where they occur.

Notably, at -50 ° C, a glass transition leads to a /uniFB01 rst deviation from Arrhenius behavior, and sodium conductivity increases faster with an activation energy of 0.6 eV above the transition. A similar behavior has already been observed for other ionic conductors, classi /uniFB01 ed as so-called type II ionic conductors. 52 In type II materials, a mobile sublattice gradually disorders as temperature increases, whereas the immobile sublattice remains the same. PbF2 is one of those well-known examples. 52 -55 Detailed studies of this behavior in /uniFB02 uorine ion conductors have been conducted by neutron di /uniFB00 raction techniques and showed that disordering is linked to anharmonic vibrations of the mobile ions leading to lattice site disorder. 56 -58 In the case of closo -borates, Kweon et al. 17 recently discussed on the basis of ab initio calculation the origin of the high ionic conductivity observed at high temperature in Na2B12H12 and Li 2 B12 H12. They found that the anion rotational disorder dynamically /uniFB02 attens the energy landscape, facilitating the (random) hopping and disordering of cations that do not possess a strong site preference. The coupling between the cation and anion motion could also imply a preferential rotation direction for the anion under the

presence of an electric /uniFB01 eld but will require operando measurements to be con /uniFB01 rmed. Further di /uniFB00 raction studies using neutrons are required to precisely understand the disordering phenomenon and to better re /uniFB01 ne the positions of the light atoms present in Na2(B12H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5. Such detailed di /uniFB00 raction studies have already been performed on pure Na2B10H10; three di /uniFB00 erent lattice sites have been found that are partially occupied by Na + in the FCC anion backbone. 10,59 As Na2(B12H12)0.5(B10H10)0.5 shares the same FCC structure, similar site occupancies could also be assumed. In fact, Lu and Ciucci 60 have recently discussed on the basis of ab initio calculation the importance of partial occupancies of interstitial sites in Na2B10H10 for its high ionic conductivity. Therefore, site disordering is a likely explanation for the faster increase in ionic conductivity observed in regime II as compared to the very-low- and high-temperature regimes.

The activation energy extracted from conductivity data in regime II is higher than expected from the local microscopic energy barrier seen by nuclear magnetic resonance and neutron-scattering experiments. We have observed in both macroscopic (electric modulus) and microscopic (NMR) relaxation experiments that this crossover (Figure 6) can be explained by correlated motion where cation di /uniFB00 usion is coupled with anion dynamics. Indeed, QENS also shows that anion rotations are not isotropic but occur in steps around the respective symmetry axis of the two anions. These jumps may re /uniFB02 ect a docking -undocking mechanism for the sodium di /uniFB00 usion, thereby correlating the anion and cation motion. Activation energies seen by QENS perfectly agree with those detected by di /uniFB00 usion-induced 23 Na NMR relaxometry.

In addition, as the large closo -borate anions face more than one interstitial site, in which sodium ions may be present, they can a /uniFB00 ect the motion of more than one cation simultaneously, yielding cation -cation correlations. Interestingly, the β values for Na + ions found from electric modulus analysis and NMR fall in the range 0.56 -0.67. These values are in very good agreement with a microscopic interpretation of β by Phillips, 61 who found that for motion dominated by short-range interactions the parameter β of the stretched exponential electric relaxation is given by d /( d + 2), where d is the dimensionality of the di /uniFB00 usion, i.e., β = 0.6 for threedimensional motion.

Finally, we have identi /uniFB01 ed fast librational motion of the anions, responsible for dynamical background energy /uniFB02 uctuations, which are experienced by the sodium ions at low temperature. These motions are anticipated to further facilitate a cation/anion docking mechanism, as suggested in computational studies. 17 When the temperature increases above 50 -70 ° C, the thermal energy becomes su /uniFB03 ciently high in such a way that these energy /uniFB02 uctuations become less relevant. Sodium di /uniFB00 usion then occurs with a lower activation energy, re /uniFB02 ecting the noncorrelated, elementary energy barrier that is also observed by NMR spin-lattice relaxation. This regime is also characterized by a slower lattice expansion. Recently, Varley et al. 62 discussed on the basis of ab initio molecular dynamics a relationship between Li + di /uniFB00 usion and lattice volume in Li2B12H12 and showed that volume increase is linked to enhanced anion rotation and increased cation di /uniFB00 usivity, until a saturation regime is reached. In our case, we also observed such a correlation: the activation energy for cation di /uniFB00 usion decreases, i.e., it reaches a saturation value, in the same temperature range where volume expansion is reduced. Regime

III is therefore interpreted as the regime where sodium disordering within the sublattice has reached a steady state.

This c o m p l e x behavior i s not unique t o Na2(B12H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5 . Other superionic conductors based on related anions and presenting a single phase over a large temperature range, where non-Arrhenius conductivity behavior is seen, have been reported. 18,19 For comparison, we have measured the conductivity of Na2(CB11H12)(CB9H10), shown in Figure S8. In the original report on this phase, two activation energies of 0.22 and 0.35 eV were reported above and below room temperature, respectively. We /uniFB01 nd a similar value above room temperature ( E a, σ high -T = 0.20 eV). However, below room temperature the activation energy of ionic conductivity increases signi /uniFB01 cantly more than what was reported earlier, and /uniFB01 tting yields E a, σ low -T = 0.84 eV. By comparing with the previously published data, we notice that our extended temperature range compared to previous experiments allows us to cover the whole crossover of activation energy. Similar to Na2(B12H12)0.5(B10H10)0.5 , a signi /uniFB01 cant asymmetry in the electric modulus data corresponds to a frequency-dependent conductivity. A β value of 0.55 is found (0.44 from the linear /uniFB01 t of σ ( ω )), being somewhat higher than what could be expected from the ratio of the activation energies (0.20/0.84 ≈ 0.24). Further investigations are needed to understand the origin of this discrepancy. Still, such β values indicate strongly correlated ionic motion, even more than in Na2(B12H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5 . It should be noted that the closo -carbaborates anions possess a non-negligible dipolar moment compared to their closo -borate equivalent, which may add to the complexity of the ionic motion by adding an additional frustration in the energy landscape as well as orientation preference at low temperature. 63 Interestingly, the crossover between E a, σ low -T and E a, σ high -T happens at a lower temperature than for Na2(B12H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5 . Following a similar interpretation of this crossover temperature in terms of background disorder, a lower temperature is a sign of smaller amplitude of the energy /uniFB02 uctuations. Because the closo -carbaborates anions are monovalent but with a similar size than their divalent closo -borate analogues, they are more polarizable, which could explain a smaller amplitude of background energy /uniFB02 uctuations, i.e., a lower activation energy for fast librational motion.

We also measured the thermal behavior of Na2(CB11H12)(CB9H10). Similar to Na2(B12H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5 , a glasslike transition was observed (see Figure S9). Interestingly, the transition temperature appears to be higher in Na2(CB11H12)(CB9H10) than in Na2(B12H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5 and falls at the crossover temperature between E a, σ low -T and E a, σ high -T , where conductivity is already high. Therefore, the e /uniFB00 ect of the transition might be di /uniFB00 erent in the two materials, but it likely originates from similar frustrations in the material leading to correlated ion motion.

## ■ CONCLUSIONS

We showed that the peculiar i o n dynamics i n Na2(B12H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5 is responsible for its high ionic conductivity at the expense of a complex temperature dependence of the ionic conductivity. We identi /uniFB01 ed the origin of this behavior and showed that the combined e /uniFB00 ect of structural and energetic disorder as well as signi /uniFB01 cant ion -ion interactions led to a correlated di /uniFB00 usion behavior. The understanding of this behavior may provide a path to tune the crossover temperature at which the conductivity is governed by low activation energy. To minimize this

temperature, highly polarizable anions are desirable to reduce the background energy /uniFB02 uctuations. Still, these /uniFB02 uctuations are also needed to reach the high conductivity of closo -borates, and the tuning range might be limited. In fact, some models suggest that non-Arrhenius conductivity is inherent to good ionic conductors that require such energy and/or bond /uniFB02 uctuations. 64 Nevertheless, we believe that the important variety of complex boron hydride anions o /uniFB00 ers a su /uniFB03 ciently large playground to yield low activation energies over a large temperature range while maintaining high stability and ease of synthesis.

## ■ ASSOCIATED CONTENT

## * S Supporting Information

The Supporting Information is available free of charge on the ACS Publications website at DOI: 10.1021/acs.chemmater.9b00610.

Details on QENS data analysis; detailed DSC data for Na2(B12H12)0.5 (B10 H10)0.5 and Na2(CB11H12)(CB9H10); Raman spectra for Na2(B12H12)0.5(B10 H10)0.5 at 70 and 294 K; additional NMR spin-lattice relaxation data for 23 Na and 11 B; temperature-dependent 1D MAS NMR spectra and line-shape analysis for 23 Na and 11 B; QENS experimental spectra and /uniFB01 ts; QENS-derived anion jump relaxation frequencies; conductivity-derived Na + jump relaxation times; EIS analysis of Na2(CB11H12)(CB9H10) (PDF)

## ■ AUTHOR INFORMATION

## Corresponding Author

*

E-mail: arndt.remhof@empa.ch.

## ORCID

Le ́ o Duche ̂

ne: 0000-0003-0309-4682

Wei-Chih Liao: 0000-0002-4656-6291

Jan Peter Embs: 0000-0002-2816-2875

Christophe Cope ́ ret:

0000-0001-9660-3890

H. Martin R. Wilkening: 0000-0001-9706-4892

Arndt Remhof: 0000-0002-8394-9646

Hans Hagemann: 0000-0002-7183-8543

Corsin Battaglia: 0000-0002-5003-1134

## Notes

The authors declare no competing /uniFB01 nancial interest.

## ■ ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

We are grateful to the Swiss National Science Foundation (SNSF) for /uniFB01 nancial support within the Sinergia project ' Novel ionic conductors ' under contract no. CRSII2\_160749/ 1. This work was further partially supported by InnoSuisse through funding for the Swiss Competence Center for Energy Research (SCCER) Heat and Electricity Storage under contract no. 1155-002545. We also thank the Swiss spallation neutron source SINQ, Paul Scherrer Institute, for beam time on FOCUS.

## ■ REFERENCES

- (1) Janek, J.; Zeier, W. G. A Solid Future for Battery Development. Nat. Energy 2016 , 1 (9), 16141.
- (2) Kerman, K.; Luntz, A.; Viswanathan, V.; Chiang, Y.-M.; Chen, Z. Review  Practical Challenges Hindering the Development of Solid State Li Ion Batteries. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2017 , 164 (7), A1731 -A1744.
- (3) Rodrigues, M.-T. F.; Babu, G.; Gullapalli, H.; Kalaga, K.; Sayed, F. N.; Kato, K.; Joyner, J.; Ajayan, P. M. A Materials Perspective on Li-Ion Batteries at Extreme Temperatures. Nat. Energy 2017 , 2 (8), 17108.
- (4) Kato, Y.; Hori, S.; Saito, T.; Suzuki, K.; Hirayama, M.; Mitsui, A.; Yonemura, M.; Iba, H.; Kanno, R. High-Power All-Solid-State Batteries Using Sulfide Superionic Conductors. Nat. Energy 2016 , 1 (4), 16030.
- (5) Manthiram, A.; Yu, X.; Wang, S. Lithium Battery Chemistries Enabled by Solid-State Electrolytes. Nat. Rev. Mater. 2017 , 2 (4), 16103.
- (6) Zhang, Z.; Shao, Y.; Lotsch, B.; Hu, Y.-S.; Li, H.; Janek, J.; Nazar, L. F.; Nan, C.-W.; Maier, J.; Armand, M.; et al. New Horizons for Inorganic Solid State Ion Conductors. Energy Environ. Sci. 2018 , 11 , 1945 -1976.
- (7) Park, K. H.; Bai, Q.; Kim, D. H.; Oh, D. Y.; Zhu, Y.; Mo, Y.; Jung, Y. S. Design Strategies, Practical Considerations, and New Solution Processes of Sulfide Solid Electrolytes for All-Solid-State Batteries. Adv. Energy Mater. 2018 , 8 (18), 1800035.
- (8) Yan, Y.; Ku ̈ hnel, R.-S.; Remhof, A.; Duche ̂ ne, L.; Reyes, E. C.; Rentsch, D.; Ł odziana, Z.; Battaglia, C. A Lithium AmideBorohydride Solid-State Electrolyte with Lithium-Ion Conductivities Comparable to Liquid Electrolytes. Adv. Energy Mater. 2017 , 7 (19), 1700294.
- (9) Udovic, T. J.; Matsuo, M.; Unemoto, A.; Verdal, N.; Stavila, V.; Skripov, A. V.; Rush, J. J.; Takamura, H.; Orimo, S. Sodium Superionic Conduction in Na2B12H12. Chem. Commun. 2014 , 50 (28), 3750.
- (10) Udovic, T. J.; Matsuo, M.; Tang, W. S.; Wu, H.; Stavila, V.; Soloninin, A. V.; Skoryunov, R. V.; Babanova, O. A.; Skripov, A. V.; Rush, J. J.; et al. Exceptional Superionic Conductivity in Disordered Sodium Decahydro- Closo -Decaborate. Adv. Mater. 2014 , 26 (45), 7622 -7626.
- (11) Tang, W. S.; Matsuo, M.; Wu, H.; Stavila, V.; Zhou, W.; Talin, A. A.; Soloninin, A. V.; Skoryunov, R. V.; Babanova, O. A.; Skripov, A. V.; et al. Liquid-Like Ionic Conduction in Solid Lithium and Sodium Monocarba- Closo -Decaborates Near or at Room Temperature. Adv. Energy Mater. 2016 , 6 (8), 1502237.
- (12) Tang, W. S.; Unemoto, A.; Zhou, W.; Stavila, V.; Matsuo, M.; Wu, H.; Orimo, S.; Udovic, T. J. Unparalleled Lithium and Sodium Superionic Conduction in Solid Electrolytes with Large Monovalent Cage-like Anions. Energy Environ. Sci. 2015 , 8 (12), 3637 -3645.
- (13) Tang, W. S.; Matsuo, M.; Wu, H.; Stavila, V.; Unemoto, A.; Orimo, S.; Udovic, T. J. Stabilizing Lithium and Sodium Fast-Ion Conduction in Solid Polyhedral-Borate Salts at Device-Relevant Temperatures. Energy Storage Mater. 2016 , 4 , 79 -83.
- (14) Yoshida, K.; Sato, T.; Unemoto, A.; Matsuo, M.; Ikeshoji, T.; Udovic, T. J.; Orimo, S. Fast Sodium Ionic Conduction in Na 2B10H10Na2B12H12 Pseudo-Binary Complex Hydride and Application to a Bulk-Type All-Solid-State Battery. Appl. Phys. Lett. 2017 , 110 (10), 103901.
- (16) Duche ̂ ne, L.; Ku ̈ hnel, R.-S.; Stilp, E.; Cuervo Reyes, E.; Remhof, A.; Hagemann, H.; Battaglia, C. A Stable 3 V All-Solid-State Sodium -ion Battery Based on a Closo -Borate Electrolyte. Energy Environ. Sci. 2017 , 10 (12), 2609 -2615.
- (15) Duche ̂ ne, L.; Ku ̈ hnel, R.-S.; Rentsch, D.; Remhof, A.; Hagemann, H.; Battaglia, C. A Highly Stable Sodium Solid-State Electrolyte Based on a Dodeca/Deca-Borate Equimolar Mixture. Chem. Commun. 2017 , 53 (30), 4195 -4198.
- (17) Kweon, K. E.; Varley, J. B.; Shea, P.; Adelstein, N.; Mehta, P.; Heo, T. W.; Udovic, T. J.; Stavila, V.; Wood, B. C. Structural, Chemical, and Dynamical Frustration: Origins of Superionic Conductivity in Closo-Borate Solid Electrolytes. Chem. Mater. 2017 , 29 (21), 9142 -9153.
- (18) Tang, W. S.; Yoshida, K.; Soloninin, A. V.; Skoryunov, R. V.; Babanova, O. A.; Skripov, A. V.; Dimitrievska, M.; Stavila, V.; Orimo, S.; Udovic, T. J. Stabilizing Superionic-Conducting Structures via Mixed-Anion Solid Solutions of Monocarba- Closo -Borate Salts. ACS Energy Lett. 2016 , 1 (4), 659 -664.

- (19) Sadikin, Y.; Brighi, M.; Schouwink, P.; C ̌ erny ́ , R. Superionic Conduction of Sodium and Lithium in Anion-Mixed Hydroborates Na3BH4B12H12and (Li0.7Na0.3)3BH4B12H12. Adv. Energy Mater. 2015 , 5 (21), 1501016.
- (20) Dyadkin, V.; Pattison, P.; Dmitriev, V.; Chernyshov, D. A New Multipurpose Diffractometer PILATUS@SNBL. J. Synchrotron Radiat. 2016 , 23 (3), 825 -829.
- (21) Rodríguez-Carvajal, J. Recent Advances in Magnetic Structure Determination by Neutron Powder Diffraction. Phys. B 1993 , 192 (1), 55 -69.
- (22) Mesot, J.; Janssen, S.; Holitzner, L.; Hempelmann, R. FOCUS: Project of a Space and Time Focussing Time-of-Flight. J. Neutron Res. 1996 , 3 (4), 293.
- (23) Azuah, R. T.; Kneller, L. R.; Qiu, Y.; Tregenna-Piggott, P. L. W.; Brown, C. M.; Copley, J. R. D.; Dimeo, R. M. DAVE: A Comprehensive Software Suite for the Reduction, Visualization, and Analysis of Low Energy Neutron Spectroscopic Data. J. Res. Natl. Inst. Stand. Technol. 2009 , 114 (6), 341 -358.
- (24) Burankova, T. Dynamics and Structure of Ionic Liquids by Means of Neutron Scattering ; Saarland University: 2014.
- (25) Lu, Z.; Ciucci, F. Metal Borohydrides as Electrolytes for SolidState Li, Na, Mg, and Ca Batteries: A First-Principles Study. Chem. Mater. 2017 , 29 (21), 9308 -9319.
- (26) Moury, R.; Ł odziana, Z.; Remhof, A.; Duche ̂ ne, L.; Roedern, E.; Gigante, A.; Hagemann, H. Pressure-Induced Phase Transitions in Na2B12H12, Structural Investigation on a Candidate for Solid-State Electrolyte. Acta Crystallogr. Sect. B 2019 , DOI: 10.1107/ S2052520619004670.
- (27) Tang, W. S.; Dimitrievska, M.; Stavila, V.; Zhou, W.; Wu, H.; Talin, A. A.; Udovic, T. J. Order-Disorder Transitions and Superionic Conductivity in the Sodium Nido-Undeca(Carba)Borates. Chem. Mater. 2017 , 29 (24), 10496 -10509.
- (28) Zarzycki, J. Glasses and the Vitreous State ; Cambridge University Press: 1991.
- (29) Brighi, M.; Murgia, F.; Ł odziana, Z.; Schouwink, P.; Wo ł czyk, A.; Cerny, R. A Mixed Anion Hydroborate/Carba-Hydroborate as a Room Temperature Na-Ion Solid Electrolyte. J. Power Sources 2018 , 404 , 7 -12.
- (30) Kincs, J.; Martin, S. W. Non-Arrhenius Conductivity in Glass: Mobility and Conductivity Saturation Effects. Phys. Rev. Lett. 1996 , 76 (1), 70 -73.
- (31) Funke, K.; Cramer, C.; Wilmer, D. Concept of Mismatch and Relaxation for Self-Di /uniFB00 usion and Conduction in Ionic Materials with Disordered Structures. In Di /uniFB00 usion in Condensed Matter: Methods, Materials, Models ; Heitjans, P., Ka ̈ rger, J., Eds.; Springer-Verlag: Berlin/Heidelberg, 2005; pp 857 -893.
- (32) Dieterich, W.; Maass, P. Non-Debye Relaxations in Disordered Ionic Solids. Chem. Phys. 2002 , 284 (1 -2), 439 -467.
- (33) Ngai, K. L.; Jonscher, A. K.; White, C. T. On the Origin of the Universal Dielectric Response in Condensed Matter. Nature 1979 , 277 (5693), 185 -189.
- (34) Ngai, K. L.; Rizos, A. K. Parameterless Explanation of the NonArrhenius Conductivity in Glassy Fast Ionic Conductors. Phys. Rev. Lett. 1996 , 76 (8), 1296 -1299.
- (35) Ngai, K. L.; Rendell, R. W. Basic Physics of the Coupling Model: Direct Experimental Evidences. In Supercooled Liquids ; ACS Symposium Series; American Chemical Society: 1997; Vol. 676 , pp 45 -66.
- (36) Cuervo-Reyes, E.; Roedern, E.; Yun, Y.; Battaglia, C. Analytical Approximation for the Frequency Dependent Conductivity in Ionic Conductors. Electrochim. Acta 2019 , 297 , 435 -442.
- (37) Roling, B. What Do Electrical Conductivity and Electrical Modulus Spectra Tell Us about the Mechanisms of Ion Transport Processes in Melts, Glasses, and Crystals. J. Non-Cryst. Solids 1999 , 244 (1), 34 -43.
- (38) Ngai, K. L.; Leo ́ n, C. Recent Advances in Relating Macroscopic Electrical Relaxation Data to Microscopic Movements of the Ions in Ionically Conducting Materials. Solid State Ionics 1999 , 125 (1), 81 -90.
- (39) Wakamura, K. Effects of Electronic Band on Activation Energy and of Effective Charge on Lattice Distortion in Superionic Conductors. J. Phys. Chem. Solids 1998 , 59 (5), 591 -598.
- (40) Kuhn, A.; Kunze, M.; Sreeraj, P.; Wiemho ̈ fer, H.-D.; Thangadurai, V.; Wilkening, M.; Heitjans, P. NMR Relaxometry as a Versatile Tool to Study Li Ion Dynamics in Potential Battery Materials. Solid State Nucl. Magn. Reson. 2012 , 42 , 2 -8.
- (41) Uitz, M.; Epp, V.; Bottke, P.; Wilkening, M. Ion Dynamics in Solid Electrolytes for Lithium Batteries: Probing Jump Rates and Activation Energies through Time-Domain Li NMR. J. Electroceram. 2017 , 38 (2 -4), 142 -156.
- (42) Bloembergen, N.; Purcell, E. M.; Pound, R. V. Relaxation Effects in Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Absorption. Phys. Rev. 1948 , 73 (7), 679 -712.
- (43) Skripov, A. V.; Babanova, O. A.; Soloninin, A. V.; Stavila, V.; Verdal, N.; Udovic, T. J.; Rush, J. J. Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Study of Atomic Motion in A2B12H12 (A = Na, K, Rb, Cs): Anion Reorientations and Na + Mobility. J. Phys. Chem. C 2013 , 117 (49), 25961 -25968.
- (44) Skripov, A. V.; Skoryunov, R. V.; Soloninin, A. V.; Babanova, O. A.; Tang, W. S.; Stavila, V.; Udovic, T. J. Anion Reorientations and Cation Diffusion in LiCB11H12 and NaCB11H12: 1 H, 7 Li, and 23 Na NMR Studies. J. Phys. Chem. C 2015 , 119 (48), 26912 -26918.
- (46) Balzer-Jo ̈ llenbeck, G.; Kanert, O.; Steinert, J.; Jain, H. LowTemperature Properties of Nuclear Spin Relaxation in Inorganic Glasses. Solid State Commun. 1988 , 65 (5), 303 -309.
- (45) Burankova, T.; Duche ̂ ne, L.; Ł odziana, Z.; Frick, B.; Yan, Y.; Ku ̈ hnel, R.-S.; Hagemann, H.; Remhof, A.; Embs, J. P. Reorientational Hydrogen Dynamics in Complex Hydrides with Enhanced Li + Conduction. J. Phys. Chem. C 2017 , 121 (33), 17693 -17702.
- (47) Maass, P.; Meyer, M.; Bunde, A.; Dieterich, W. Microscopic Explanation of the Non-Arrhenius Conductivity in Glassy Fast Ionic Conductors. Phys. Rev. Lett. 1996 , 77 (8), 1528 -1531.
- (48) Soloninin, A. V.; Dimitrievska, M.; Skoryunov, R. V.; Babanova, O. A.; Skripov, A. V.; Tang, W. S.; Stavila, V.; Orimo, S.; Udovic, T. J. Comparison of Anion Reorientational Dynamics in MCB9H10 and M2B10H10 (M = Li, Na) via Nuclear Magnetic Resonance and Quasielastic Neutron Scattering Studies. J. Phys. Chem. C 2017 , 121 (2), 1000 -1012.
- (49) Verdal, N.; Udovic, T. J.; Stavila, V.; Tang, W. S.; Rush, J. J.; Skripov, A. V. Anion Reorientations in the Superionic Conducting Phase of Na2B12H12. J. Phys. Chem. C 2014 , 118 (31), 17483 -17489. ̈ ̈ ussermann, U.; Brown, C. M.; Neutron
- (50) O sterberg, C.; Fahlquist, H.; Ha Udovic, T. J.; Karlsson, M. Dynamics of Pyramidal SiH3 -Ions in ASiH3 (A = K and Rb) Investigated with Quasielastic Scattering. J. Phys. Chem. C 2016 , 120 (12), 6369 -6376.
- (51) Aniya, M. A Chemical Approach for the Microscopic Mechanism of Fast Ion Transport in Solids. Solid State Ionics 1992 , 50 (1 -2), 125 -129.
- (52) Boyce, J. B.; Huberman, B. A. Superionic Conductors: Transitions, Structures, Dynamics. Phys. Rep. 1979 , 51 (4), 189 -265.
- (53) Derrington, C. E.; Navrotsky, A.; O ' Keeffe, M. High Temperature Heat Content and Diffuse Transition of Lead Fluoride. Solid State Commun. 1976 , 18 (1), 47 -49.
- (54) Hanaya, M.; Okubayashi, T.; Sakurai, T.; Oguni, M. A Glass Transition Due to Freezing-in of Positional Disorder of Mobile Silver Ions in the Glassy State of the AgBr-AgPO 3 System. Thermochim. Acta 1995 , 266 (C), 79 -95.
- (55) Corbel, G.; Suard, E.; Lacorre, P. Structural Key of the Thermal Expansion and the Oxide Ionic Conduction in Derivatives of La2Mo2O9: A Temperature- Controlled Neutron Diffraction Study of β -La1.7Bi0.3Mo2O9. Chem. Mater. 2011 , 23 (5), 1288 -1298.
- (56) Willis, B. T. M. The Anomalous Behaviour of the Neutron Reflexion of Fluorite. Acta Crystallogr. 1965 , 18 (1), 75 -76.
- (57) Thomas, M. W. Neutron Diffraction Evidence for Anion Sublattice Disordering in Alkali Earth Fluorides at High Temperatures. Chem. Phys. Lett. 1976 , 40 (1), 111 -115.

- (58) Koto, K.; Schulz, H.; Huggins, R. A. Anion Disorder and Ionic Motion in Lead Fluoride ( β -PbF2). Solid State Ionics 1980 , 1 (5 -6), 355 -365.
- (59) Wu, H.; Tang, W. S.; Zhou, W.; Stavila, V.; Rush, J. J.; Udovic, T. J. The Structure of Monoclinic Na2B10H10: A Combined Diffraction, Spectroscopy, and Theoretical Approach. CrystEngComm 2015 , 17 (18), 3533 -3540.
- (60) Lu, Z.; Ciucci, F. Structural Origin of the Superionic Na Conduction in Na2B10H10 Closo-Borates and Enhanced Conductivity by Na Deficiency for High Performance Solid Electrolytes. J. Mater. Chem. A 2016 , 4 (45), 17740 -17748.
- (61) Phillips, J. C. Stretched Exponential Relaxation in Molecular and Electronic Glasses. Rep. Prog. Phys. 1996 , 59 (9), 1133 -1207.
- (62) Varley, J. B.; Kweon, K.; Mehta, P.; Shea, P.; Heo, T. W.; Udovic, T. J.; Stavila, V.; Wood, B. C. Understanding Ionic Conductivity Trends in Polyborane Solid Electrolytes from Ab Initio Molecular Dynamics. ACS Energy Lett. 2017 , 2 (1), 250 -255.
- (63) Dimitrievska, M.; Shea, P.; Kweon, K. E.; Bercx, M.; Varley, J. B.; Tang, W. S.; Skripov, A. V.; Stavila, V.; Udovic, T. J.; Wood, B. C. Carbon Incorporation and Anion Dynamics as Synergistic Drivers for Ultrafast Diffusion in Superionic LiCB11H12 and NaCB11H12. Adv. Energy Mater. 2018 , 8 (15), 1703422.
- (64) Okada, Y.; Ikeda, M.; Aniya, M. Non-Arrhenius Ionic Conductivity in Solid Electrolytes: A Theoretical Model and Its Relation with the Bonding Nature. Solid State Ionics 2015 , 281 , 43 -48.