## ARTICLES

## Glassy Li metal anode for high-performance rechargeable Li batteries

Xuefeng Wang/hairspace /hairspace 1,5 , Gorakh Pawar/hairspace /hairspace 2,5 , Yejing Li 1 , Xiaodi Ren 3 , Minghao Zhang 1 , Bingyu Lu 1 , Abhik Banerjee 1 , Ping Liu/hairspace /hairspace 1 , Eric J. Dufek/hairspace /hairspace 4 , Ji-Guang Zhang/hairspace /hairspace 3 , Jie Xiao/hairspace /hairspace 3 , Jun Liu/hairspace /hairspace 3 , Ying Shirley Meng/hairspace /hairspace 1 ✉ and Boryann Liaw/hairspace /hairspace 4 ✉

Lithium metal has been considered an ideal anode for high-energy rechargeable Li batteries, although its nucleation and growth process remains mysterious, especially at the nanoscale. Here, cryogenic transmission electron microscopy was used to reveal the evolving nanostructure of Li metal deposits at various transient states in the nucleation and growth process, in which a disorder-order phase transition was observed as a function of current density and deposition time. The atomic interaction over wide spatial and temporal scales was depicted by reactive molecular dynamics simulations to assist in understanding the kinetics. Compared to crystalline Li, glassy Li outperforms in electrochemical reversibility, and it has a desired structure for high-energy rechargeable Li batteries. Our findings correlate the crystallinity of the nuclei with the subsequent growth of the nanostructure and morphology, and provide strategies to control and shape the mesostructure of Li metal to achieve high performance in rechargeable Li batteries.

M etal-based anodes, such as those of lithium metal, can lead to  the  highest  specific  energy  for  rechargeable  batteries and show great promise to meet the increasing demand for  energy  storage  applications  in  the  future.  However,  most  Li metal electrodes suffer from poor electrochemical reversibility and short cycle life. Since the properties of the Li metal (for example, the nano-  and  microstructure,  morphology  and  electrochemical  performance) in rechargeable Li batteries are largely governed by the electrochemical process, it is critical to comprehend the underlying mechanism of Li deposition by both experimental and theoretical work, especially in the very early stage of nucleation, to seek better control of the Li kinetics.

To explore the electrodeposition behaviour of Li metal, various experimental techniques have been developed to capture the kinetic process and probe the structural evolution of Li metal at different stages  and  conditions,  as  displayed  in  Supplementary  Fig.  1  and Supplementary Table 1. Although in situ, operando microscopies allow  us  to  visualize  the  real-time  microstructure  evolution 1-7 , it  is  still  very  difficult  to  capture  the  initial  stage  of  Li  deposition when Li metal begins to nucleate and subsequently grow into stable microstructures. In order to push the detection limit to the nano or  even  atomic  scale,  cryogenic  protection  is  essential  to  minimize  the  beam  damage,  while  preserving  the  intrinsic  structure of  Li  deposits.  Recently,  cryogenic  transmission  electron  microscopy (cryo-TEM) has proved useful to study the nanostructures of Li metal and reveal the variations in its crystallinity and the solid electrolyte interphases 8,9 . Such variations may substantially alter the growth of Li deposits and their physicochemical properties, yet a detailed understanding has not yet been established.

Classical  nucleation  theory  (CNT)  shows  that  nuclei  appear  if the  embryo's  bulk  energy  overcomes  the  surface  energy,  and  the nuclei grow if the size of the embryo exceeds the critical radius 10 .

For electrochemical nucleation, this process is driven by the charge transfer and sustained by the mass transport of ions near the electrolyte-electrode interface 11 . Previous models based on these principles 7,12-16 underline  some  key  concepts  like  free  energy,  surface tension and overpotential, which are macroscopic properties; but these concepts become ambiguous when a nucleus comprises only a few atoms. These properties also do not describe the atomic interactions, attachment kinetics and detachment kinetics to small clusters with sufficient detail to delineate different nanostructure configurations, which is urgently required to develop microscopic and even atomistic models to understand Li nucleation and growth.

Here, we applied cryo-EM to capture the kinetic progression of the nucleation of Li metal and used reactive molecular dynamics (r-MD) simulations to understand the atomic interaction. A disorder-order phase transition (DOPT) was revealed and explained as a function of current density and deposition time. On this basis, the crystallinity of nuclei was correlated with the subsequent growth of the nanostructure and morphology, which are pertinent to the electrochemical performance of the Li metal electrode.

## Cryo-TEM observations

The  cryo-TEM results  (Fig.  1,  Supplementary  Fig.  2  (ref. 17 )  and Supplementary  Figs.  3-9)  show  the  nano-  and  microstructure evolution  of  electrochemically  deposited  Li  (EDLi)  as  a  function of deposition time (5-20 min; Supplementary Figs. 3-6) and current  density  (0.1-2.5 mA cm -2 ;  Supplementary  Figs.  7-9).  At 0.5 mA cm -2 ,  although  the  deposition  time  was  as  short  as  5 min, tubular EDLi formed that was about 200 nm in diameter and &gt; 1 µ m in  length  (Supplementary  Fig.  4).  Interestingly,  no  lattice  fringes (Fig.  1a  and  Supplementary  Fig.  5a-d)  nor  characteristic  bright diffraction  spots/rings  of  the  body-centred  cubic  (bcc)  Li  metal packing  in  the  fast  Fourier  transformed  (FFT)  image  (Fig.  1d)

1 Department of NanoEngineering, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA.  2 Department of Material Science and Engineering, Idaho National Laboratory, Idaho Falls, ID, USA.  3 Energy and Environmental Directorate, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, Richland, WA, USA.  4 Department of Energy Storage and Advanced Transportation, Idaho National Laboratory, Idaho Falls, ID, USA.  5 These authors contributed equally: Xuefeng Wang, Gorakh Pawar.

✉

e-mail: shirleymeng@ucsd.edu; boryann.liaw@inl.gov

Fig. 1 | Nanostructure evolution of Li deposit as a function of deposition time and current density. a -l , Cryo-TEM images ( a -c and g -i ) and their corresponding FFT patterns ( d -f and j -l ) of the Li deposits at 0.5/thinspacemA/thinspacecm -2 for 5/thinspacemin ( a and d ), 10/thinspacemin ( b and e ) and 20/thinspacemin ( c and f ); 0.1/thinspacemA/thinspacecm -2 for 25/thinspacemin ( g and j ); 1.0/thinspacemA/thinspacecm -2 for 2.5/thinspacemin ( h and k ); and 2.5/thinspacemA/thinspacecm -2 for 1.0/thinspacemin ( i and l ). The images with the Li metal lattice and the characteristic bright diffraction spots highlighted by the red arrows are from the (110) plane of Li metal.

were found, suggesting that the EDLi is amorphous or glassy. The local structure in Fig. 1a displays the disordered arrangement of Li atoms (comparison to those in Fig. 1c and Supplementary Fig. 6). At 10 min, a small portion of EDLi near the surface became crystalline (Fig. 1b and Supplementary Fig. 5e-h), as evidenced by the characteristic  bright  diffraction  spots  (highlighted  by  the  red  arrows) in Fig. 1e with weak contrast. Lattice fringes were present in this region (Fig. 1b), and the distance between the adjacent fringes was measured to be 0.24(4 ± 2)  nm, consistent with the spacing between Li  (110)  planes 18 .  The  domain  of  the  crystalline  EDLi  (shown  by the  white  dashed  line)  is  about  5 ± 3  nm  in  size,  a  size  for  which the  r-MD  simulation  predicted  the  transition  to  the  crystalline phase would be eminent and spontaneous. The crystallinity degree of  the  EDLi  is  further  enhanced  with  increased  deposition  time. For 20 min, large crystalline domains ( &gt; 50 nm) and intense characteristic bright diffraction spots of the bcc structure were present (Fig. 1c,f, Supplementary Fig. 5i-l and Supplementary Fig. 6). Thus, at the same deposition rate, as the deposition time increases, more Li atoms aggregate to form larger clusters. Once the cluster is larger than a critical size, the DOPT occurs.

Further  studies  of  the  nanostructure  dependence  on  current density (Fig. 1g-l for constant capacity and Supplementary Fig. 7) showed  that  the  higher  the  current  density  used,  the  larger  the cluster size and the higher the degree of crystallinity in EDLi (the statistical analysis is shown in Supplementary Fig. 8). The EDLi is mostly  amorphous  at  0.1 mA cm -2 (Fig.  1g,j  and  Supplementary Fig.  7a,e,i,m),  partly  crystalline  at  1.0 mA cm -2 (Fig.  1h,k  and Supplementary Fig. 7c,g,k,o) and highly crystalline at 2.5 mA cm -2 (Fig. 1i,l and Supplementary Fig. 7d,h,l,p). The crystalline domains of  EDLi  at  1.0 mA cm -2 were  found  near  the  surface  (labelled  by the  red  square  in  Supplementary  Fig.  7c)  and  about  5 ± 3  nm  in size  (labelled  by  the  white  dashed  line  in  Fig.  1h).  These  results suggest  that  (1)  the  cluster  size  is  key  to  the  DOPT,  (2)  matured crystallites are often larger than 5 nm and (3) the crystalline cluster size is sensitive to the current density. Thus, high current densities expedite the Li aggregation to precipitate the crystalline nuclei. This  result  implies  that  a  diverse  local  current  density  may  lead to a wider distribution of Li cluster sizes with varied morphology (Supplementary Fig. 9).

Obtaining glassy EDLi during electrodeposition is quite surprising  for  alkali  metals  but  not  preposterous,  since  DOPT  was  also observed in other metals (such as Ni, Au, Ag, Pt 3 Co, FePt and so on) during nucleation and growth in solid or solution with precursors via in situ annealing and by liquid-cell electron microscopy 19-23 . These  DOPTs  deviate  from  the  single-step  process  explained by  the  CNT  and  suggest  the  multi-step  nature  of  crystallization through  amorphous  interphases.  All  the  DOPT  critical  sizes  are around 5-8 nm.

## The r-MD simulations

To understand the peculiar glassy nature of the EDLi, a three-stage r-MD protocol was used to simulate the  nucleation  process  with a variety of discrete canonical ensembles and conditions typically comprising (1) heating at 500 K for 0.1 ns to provide sufficient driving  force  for  the  nucleation,  (2)  quenching  to  300 K  with  a  cooling rate of 1 K ps -1 and (3) equilibrating at 300 K for 5 ns (Fig. 2a). The reactive force field ReaxFF potential 24 was used to simulate the Li-Li interactions and the Large-scale Atomic/Molecular Massively Parallel  Simulator  (LAMMPS)  package 25,26 to  perform  all  simulations  (Extended  Data  Fig.  1  and  Supplementary  Figs.  10-13) 27-31 . In  the  heating  and  quenching stage,  the  nucleation  sites  dynamically evolved into more stable clusters, as Ostwald ripening explains (Fig.  2a) 32 .  Such  a  condensation process requires a specific 'incubation time' to give the birth of a stable crystalline cluster, which has been overlooked by the quasi-equilibrium models including the CNT or density function theory to  date.  Intriguingly,  all  clusters studied here were disordered at the end of quenching, far away from the stable, ordered crystalline state. Thus, the incubation and condensation process is key to dictating the time to reach a stable lattice structure, depending on the ensemble size and the initial energy state given (Fig. 2b-d and Supplementary Fig. 10).

Figure 2b illustrates a sampling of the lattice structure of Li clusters as a function of cluster size at the end of the simulation. Lithium clusters with &gt; 700 Li atoms in the ensemble (at a packing density of ρ = 0.0534 g cm -3 ) are able to transform into a nucleus with the bcc lattice structure, whereas those with &lt; 700 Li atoms remain disordered or glassy. Clusters of 700 Li atoms exhibit either a glassy or crystalline state with a broad range of kinetic pathways and incubation times (Fig. 2c). Thus, a cluster of 700 Li atoms, with a size of about 2-3 nm, sets the threshold for the DOPT. Increasing the current density yields a larger cluster size, which rapidly reduces the incubation time for the DOPT (Fig. 2c) and increases the fraction of bcc ordered or crystalline Li in the lattice (Fig. 2d). If the current density is lower than the threshold, the incubation time for the DOPT is on the order of nanoseconds, which is rarely emphasized by the CNT 33,34 .

As  Li  aggregates,  the  incubation  and  physical  spatial  confinement from the neighbouring bodies determine if a cluster has sufficient exergy (primarily entropy), mobility and time to carry out

Fig. 2 | MD simulation of the nucleation process of Li metal. a , An example of Li nucleation, growth and kinetic pathway to a cluster with an ensemble of 700 Li atoms. b , A sampling of the final state of various sizes of clusters at the end of the simulation (5.3/thinspacens). c , Incubation time to DOPT (a second-order phase transition) as a function of ensemble size. d , Fraction of Li atoms in a bcc lattice arrangement as a function of ensemble size.

the  DOPT.  Extended  Data  Fig.  1  illustrates  the  variability  in  the kinetic pathways and temporal nanostructure evolutions in terms of  packing  density,  mass  and  energy  exchange.  At  a  low  packing density of 0.0534 g cm -3 (Extended Data Fig. 1a), whether mass or energy exchange was confined or not, the Li aggregation produces mostly  glassy  phases.  As  the  current  density  increases,  the  packing  density  of  Li  atoms  increases  in  proportion  (Extended  Data Fig.  1b-d).  Further  confinement  in  mass  and  energy  exchange expedite  the  DOPT  and  shorten  the  incubation  time.  Diverse kinetic  results  determine  the  microstructure  and  morphological evolutions: from spherical glassy nanostructures of a random distribution of sizes to a host of microstructures of diverse crystallinity, including sheets and rods that comprise glassy nanostructures (Extended Data Fig. 1a and glassy part of Extended Data Fig. 1b), mixtures of crystalline nanostructures of various sizes and shapes (crystalline  part  of  Extended  Data  Fig.  1b,c)  and  connected  networks of micro-grains and micro-pores (Extended Data Fig. 1d). Such a dynamic range of atomic lattice arrangements further affects the  subsequent  larger-size  microstructure  evolutions,  crystallinity and morphological and shape changes in a solid particle. A larger scale (in the linear dimension of 20 nm) of simulation and representation of this behaviour is shown in Supplementary Fig. 13.

## From nucleation to growth

The  microstructure  and  morphology  of  the  Li  deposited  to  a 1 mA h cm -2 loading  were  examined  by  scanning  electron  microscopy  (SEM)  and  cryo-TEM  (Fig.  3,  Extended  Data  Figs.  2  and  3 and Supplementary Figs. 14-17). The results in Fig.  3  are  consistent with the simulation prediction. Most of the Li metals grown at 0.1 mA cm -2 have a sheet-like morphology, and their planar size can be as large as several micrometres (Fig. 3a,d,g). This large sheet originates from the glassy nature of the Li nuclei, which mostly remained at the end of the growth (Fig. 3j). By contrast, the Li metals grown at

Fig. 3 | Microstructure and morphology of Li deposits after 1/thinspacemA/thinspaceh/thinspacecm -2 plating. a -l , SEM ( a -f ) and cryo-TEM images ( g -l ) of the Li deposits at 0.1/thinspacemA/thinspacecm -2 for 10/thinspaceh ( a , d , g , j ), 0.5/thinspacemA/thinspacecm -2 for 2/thinspaceh ( b , e , h , k ) and 2.5/thinspacemA/thinspacecm -2 for 0.4/thinspaceh ( c , f , i , l ). The images with the Li metal lattice and the characteristic bright diffraction spots highlighted by the red arrows are from the (110) plane of Li metal.

Fig. 4 | Correlation between crystallinity of Li metal and performance (left) and strategies to achieve better performance (right). The performance (left) is specified as the electrochemical performance of Li metal as an anode for Li metal batteries, including high Coulombic efficiency (CE), long cycling life, low volume change and absence of Li dendrites. The structural connection is referred to as the capability to maintain the electronic and ionic pathway for charge transfer and ion transportation; poor structural connection will facilitate lost electrochemical activity and form 'dead' Li. The electrochemical reversibility is measured by the content ratio of the stripped Li by plated Li, which should be close to 100%. The ideal deposit density should be consistent with the theoretical density of Li metal (0.534/thinspaceg/thinspacecm -3 ). The proposed strategies such as using the 3D substrate, changing current density, engineering interphase and designing electrolytes can alter the energy transfer and mass transfer of EDLi during nucleation and growth, thus resulting in varied crystallinity of EDLi.

Fig. 5 | The influence of electrolyte on the nano- and microstructure of Li deposits and the resulting performance. a -e , Nanostructure ( d and e ) and microstructure ( a and b ) of Li deposits from baseline electrolyte ( a and d ) and advanced electrolyte ( b and e ); statistical distribution ( c ) of a-Li and c-Li in the two electrolytes. f , A comparison of the cycling performance of two electrolytes using Li-free anode Cu/thinspace||/thinspaceNMC-333 cells. The images with the Li metal lattice and the characteristic bright diffraction spots highlighted by the red arrows are from the (110) plane of Li metal. The statistical analysis was performed based on the ~100 separated random Li ribbons; c-Li was counted if the present lattice or FFT diffraction spots belonged to Li metal; otherwise, a-Li was counted. 1C was equal to a current density of 1.5/thinspacemA/thinspacecm -2 .

0.5 and 2.5 mA cm -2 are partially (Fig. 3k) and highly (Fig. 3l) crystalline (Supplementary Figs. 14-17). As a result, ribbon- and even dendrite-like Li deposits are formed at 0.5 mA cm -2 (Fig. 3b,e,h) and 2.5 mA cm -2 (Fig.  3c,f,i),  with  a  rapidly  reduced  planar  diameter and lower Coulombic efficiency (Supplementary Fig. 16). Thus, it is reasonable to correlate the microstructure, morphology and performance of Li deposits with the order-disorder nanostructure of the Li nuclei: the higher the crystallinity, the finer the final shape and the lower the electrochemical reversibility. The initial nucleation shapes the subsequent growth of the Li metal deposits.

Fig. 6 | Simulated results of Li deposition at three different rates. a , 1/thinspaceLi/thinspaceps -1 . b , 0.5/thinspaceLi/thinspaceps -1 . c , 0.25/thinspaceLi/thinspaceps -1 . A quasi-3D simulation domain of 112.3/thinspace( L )/thinspace × /thinspace0.702/thinspace( D )/thinspace × /thinspace35. 1/thinspace( H )/thinspacenm 3 was used to simulate the rate effects on the Li deposit. L , length; D , depth; H , height. The modified embedded atom model (MEAM) force field was used to capture the Li atomic interactions. The LAMMPS simulation package was used to perform all atomistic simulations where the total simulation time was 45/thinspacens with a time step of 1/thinspacefs. The quality and characteristics of the Li deposition are quantified by three parameters: an average surface roughness ( R a ), the maximum surface roughness ( R max ) and the standard deviation of surface roughness ( σ ).

## Strategies and applications

Figure  4  illustrates  the  benefits  of  glassy  Li  metal  as  a  rechargeable Li battery anode. The glassy nature (that is, the absence of the ordered nanostructure, grain boundaries and crystal defects) of the Li  metal  avoids  epitaxial  growth  and  enables  multi-dimensional growth into large grains, which is the desired form for a practical Li metal anode. The Li grains have higher density, lower porosity and tortuosity,  less  reactivity  and  better  microstructure  interconnections than the dendrites. These features can substantially minimize the volume expansion, reduce the side reaction between Li and the electrolyte and maintain an effective electronic and ionic network or percolation pathway. As a consequence, a higher electrochemical reversibility would be expected for glassy Li. Therefore, from a structural perspective, glassy Li metal may be the key to solve the long-standing  cyclability  issue  of  using  a  Li  metal  electrode  for high-energy rechargeable Li batteries.

As demonstrated above, the DOPT is regulated by the packing density,  energy  transfer  and  mass  transfer  during  the  nucleation process, which in turn provide the ways to facilitate the formation of favourable glassy Li metal. Reducing the current density down to the critical point will directly decrease the initial packing density and facilitate a longer incubation. An alternative way is to use the three-dimensional (3D) substrate (current collector) to reduce the effective local current density. Meanwhile, fast ion and electron conduction is advantageous to reduce mass transfer and energy transfer barriers during the nucleation and growth process, which requires electrolyte design and interphase engineering. These strategies have been proved effective to obtain larger grains of Li with enhanced reversibility, although prior studies have not been able to correlate the intrinsic nature of amorphous or glassy Li with the improved performance. Herein, we provide a microscopic perspective on the working principle of these strategies and propose that they could actually alter the nano- and microstructure of Li deposits.

As a proof of concept, Fig. 5 shows that the electrolyte design does  indeed  dramatically influence the bulk lattice structure (Fig. 5c-e) of the Li deposits, which regulates the final morphology (Fig.  5a,b)  and  electrochemical  performance  (Fig.  5f).  Statistical analysis results (Fig. 5c) indicate that the advanced electrolyte is in favour of forming amorphous Li (a-Li) deposits (~76.8% a-Li versus 23.2% crystalline Li (c-Li)), while the crystalline ones are dominant in the baseline electrolyte (~48.4% a-Li versus 52.6% c-Li). For their nanostructure, the lattice structure is predominantly disordered in the former (Fig. 5e), but a mixture of ordered and disordered segments appear in the latter (Fig. 5d); whereas both display similar surface  solid-electrolyte  interphase  structure  (~10 nm  thick  and composed of Li 2 O nanocrystals; black regime). This result demonstrates that it is the intrinsic nanostructure property of Li that governed the final shape and performance of the Li metal anode. As a result, long and thin ribbon-like Li deposits (Fig. 5a) were formed in  the  baseline  electrolyte  while  large  chunky  deposits  of  Li  were found in the advanced electrolyte (Fig. 5b). In Li-free Cu || NMC333  cells  (NMC-333,  one-third  nickel,  one-third  manganese  and

one-third  cobalt;  Fig.  5f),  the  cell  with  baseline  electrolyte  failed quickly within five cycles, while the advanced electrolyte-based cell lasted for more than 50 cycles with a capacity retention of 59.2% (Supplementary Table 2). This result further proves that the glassy Li  metal  is  beneficial  to  achieve  the  best  electrochemical  performance for high-energy rechargeable Li batteries.

A combination of the cryogenic microscopic observations and molecular-level simulations presents an explicit picture of the intermediate structural and morphological evolution of Li deposits from the atomic scale to a microscale particle. Depending on the atomic interaction  during  the  initial  nucleation  (for  example,  the  atoms' packing density, mass transfer and energy transfer), the nanostructure of Li nuclei can vary from disordered to ordered, which eventually shapes the final microstructure and affects the performance. To further illustrate this aspect, Fig. 6 provides an interesting simulation on how the deposition rate affects the morphology evolution and kinetic variation in shaping the surface landscape and defect formation in the bulk. At a higher rate (Fig. 6a), less incubation time could afford a more stabilized growth of c-Li in the EDLi to create larger grains in the microstructure. However, the mismatch of the orientation among the grains could result in a rougher surface and a substantial amount of defect formation from dislocations and grain boundaries to voids. As the Li deposition rate decreases, a smoother surface and less defects in the bulk developed in the microstructure and morphology.

For  rechargeable  Li  batteries,  glassy  Li  has  been  proven  to possess the desired nanostructure since it facilitates the formation  of  large  Li  grains  and  achieves  high  Coulombic  efficiency. The absence of the ordered nanostructure and grain boundaries enables Li metal to grow in multiple dimensions rather than in an  epitaxial  manner,  and  to  maintain  good  structural  connection  and  reversibility  during  plating  and  stripping.  Tuning  the temporal and spatial confinements in mass transfer and energy transfer by different strategies could help to obtain glassy Li metal deposits, including methods to lower the current density, design advanced electrolyte compositions and use 3D current collectors. These strategies are able to alter the bulk microstructure of a Li metal electrode and obtain larger, more homogeneous Li deposits with improved cycling performance.

Amorphous metals or metallic glasses are attractive as a class of advanced functional materials for applications in different technological areas, and scientific exploration of glass formation and glassy phenomena need more attention 35-38 . Conventional metallic glasses are  made by alloying more than two metals, especially transition metals,  by  fast  quenching  (for  example, &gt; 10 6 K  s -1 ) 35 .  This  work demonstrates  that  electrochemical  deposition  is  a  powerful  and effective method to obtain such metallic glasses, including Na, K, Mg and Zn (Extended Data Fig. 4 and Supplementary Figs. 18-21). More  importantly,  the  properties  of  such  metallic  glasses,  the amounts and the particle sizes and distributions could be tuned by adjusting the current density and deposition time through optimization. These new amorphous active metals will open new opportunities in various applications besides the metallic glass and energy storage fields, including biomedicine, nanotechnology and microelectromechanical systems.

## Online content

Any  methods,  additional  references,  Nature  Research  reporting  summaries, source data, extended data, supplementary information,  acknowledgements,  peer  review  information;  details  of author  contributions  and  competing  interests;  and  statements  of data and code availability are available at https://doi.org/10.1038/

s41563-020-0729-1.

Received: 31 October 2019; Accepted: 9 June 2020;

Published online: 27 July 2020

## References

1. Steiger, J., Kramer, D. &amp; Mönig, R. Mechanisms of dendritic growth investigated by in situ light microscopy during electrodeposition and dissolution of lithium. J. Power Sources 261 , 112-119 (2014).
2. Wood, K. N. et al. Dendrites and pits: untangling the complex behavior of lithium metal anodes through operando video microscopy. ACS Cent. Sci. 2 , 790-801 (2016).
3. Cohen, Y. S., Cohen, Y. &amp; Aurbach, D. Micromorphological studies of lithium electrodes in alkyl carbonate solutions using in situ atomic force microscopy. J. Phys. Chem. B 104 , 12282-12291 (2000).
4. Mogi, R., Inaba, M., Iriyama, Y., Abe, T. &amp; Ogumi, Z. In situ atomic force microscopy study on lithium deposition on nickel substrates at elevated temperatures. J. Electrochem. Soc. 149 , A385-A390 (2002).
5. Orsini, F. et al. In situ scanning electron microscopy (SEM) observation of interfaces within plastic lithium batteries. J. Power Sources 76 , 19-29 (1998).
6. Cheng, J.-H. et al. Visualization of lithium plating and stripping via in operando transmission X-ray microscopy. J. Phys. Chem. C 121 , 7761-7766 (2017).
7. Kushima, A. et al. Liquid cell transmission electron microscopy observation of lithium metal growth and dissolution: root growth, dead lithium and lithium flotsams. Nano Energy 32 , 271-279 (2017).
8. Li, Y. et al. Atomic structure of sensitive battery materials and interfaces revealed by cryo-electron microscopy. Science 358 , 506-510 (2017).
9. Wang, X. et al. New insights on the structure of electrochemically deposited lithium metal and its solid electrolyte interphases via cryogenic TEM. Nano Lett. 17 , 7606-7612 (2017).
10.  Dubrovskii, V . in Nucleation Theory and Growth of Nanostructures 1-73 (Springer, 2014).
11.  Scharifker, B. R. &amp; Mostany, J. in Encyclopedia of Electrochemistry 512-539 (Wiley, 2007).
12.  Ely, D. R., Jana, A. &amp; García, R. E. Phase field kinetics of lithium electrodeposits. J. Power Sources 272 , 581-594 (2014).
13.  Ely, D. R. &amp; García, R. E. Heterogeneous nucleation and growth of lithium electrodeposits on negative electrodes. J. Electrochem. Soc. 160 , A662-A668 (2013).
14.  Akolkar, R. Modeling dendrite growth during lithium electrodeposition at sub-ambient temperature. J. Power Sources 246 , 84-89 (2014).
15.  Akolkar, R. Mathematical model of the dendritic growth during lithium electrodeposition. J. Power Sources 232 , 23-28 (2013).
16.  Chazalviel, J. N. Electrochemical aspects of the generation of ramified metallic electrodeposits. Phys. Rev. A 42 , 7355-7367 (1990).
17.  Wang, X., Li, Y . &amp; Meng, Y. S. Cryogenic electron microscopy for characterizing and diagnosing batteries. Joule 2 , 2225-2234 (2018).
18.  Wang, F. et al. Chemical distribution and bonding of lithium in intercalated graphite: identification with optimized electron energy loss spectroscopy. ACS Nano 5 , 1190-1197 (2011).
19.  Loh, N. D. et al. Multistep nucleation of nanocrystals in aqueous solution. Nat. Chem. 9 , 77-82 (2017).
20.  Y ang, J. et al. Amorphous-phase-mediated crystallization of Ni nanocrystals revealed by high-resolution liquid-phase electron microscopy. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 141 , 763-768 (2019).
21.  Liao, H.-G., Cui, L., Whitelam, S. &amp; Zheng, H. Real-time imaging of Pt 3 Fe nanorod growth in solution. Science 336 , 1011-1014 (2012).
22.  Wittig, J. E., Bentley, J. &amp; Allard, L. F. In situ investigation of ordering phase transformations in FePt magnetic nanoparticles. Ultramicroscopy 176 , 218-232 (2017).
23.  Chi, M. et al. Surface faceting and elemental diffusion behaviour at atomic scale for alloy nanoparticles during in situ annealing. Nat. Commun. 6 , 8925 (2015).
24.  van Duin, A. C. T., Dasgupta, S., Lorant, F. &amp; Goddard, W . A. ReaxFF: a reactive force field for hydrocarbons. J. Phys. Chem. A 105 , 9396-9409 (2001).
25.  Plimpton, S., Crozier, P . &amp; Thompson, A. LAMMPS-large-scale atomic/ molecular massively parallel simulator. Sandia Natl Laboratories 18 , 43 (2007).
26.  Majure, D. L. et al. Large-scale atomic/molecular massively parallel simulator (LAMMPS) simulations of the effects of chirality and diameter on the pullout force in a carbon nanotube bundle. In 2008 DoD HPCMP Users Group Conference 201-207 (IEEE, 2008).
27.  Stukowski, A. Visualization and analysis of atomistic simulation data with OVITO-the open visualization tool. Model. Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 18 , 015012 (2009).
28.  Onofrio, N. &amp; Strachan, A. Voltage equilibration for reactive atomistic simulations of electrochemical processes. J. Chem. Phys. 143 , 054109 (2015).
29.  Jensen, B. D., Wise, K. E. &amp; Odegard, G. M. The effect of time step, thermostat, and strain rate on ReaxFF simulations of mechanical failure in diamond, graphene, and carbon nanotube. J. Comput. Chem. 36 , 1587-1596 (2015).

## NATURE MATERIALS

30.  Cui, Z., Gao, F., Cui, Z. &amp; Qu, J. Developing a second nearest-neighbor modified embedded atom method interatomic potential for lithium. Model. Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 20 , 015014 (2011).
31.  Stukowski, A. Structure identification methods for atomistic simulations of crystalline materials. Model. Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng. 20 , 045021 (2012).
32.  Baldan, A. Review progress in Ostwald ripening theories and their applications to nickel-base superalloys part I: Ostwald ripening theories. J. Mater. Sci. 37 , 2171-2202 (2002).
33.  Nanev, C. N. in Handbook of Crystal Growth 2nd edn , 315-358 (Elsevier, 2015).
34.  Karthika, S., Radhakrishnan, T. K. &amp; Kalaichelvi, P . A review of classical and nonclassical nucleation theories. Cryst. Growth Des. 16 , 6663-6681 (2016).

## ARTICLES

35.  Greer, A. L. Metallic glasses. Science 267 , 1947-1953 (1995).
36.  Jafary-Zadeh, M. et al. A critical review on metallic glasses as structural materials for cardiovascular stent applications. J. Funct. Biomater. 9 , 19 (2018).
37.  Chen, M. A brief overview of bulk metallic glasses. NPG Asia Mater. 3 , 82-90 (2011).
38.  Khan, M. M. et al. Recent advancements in bulk metallic glasses and their applications: a review. Crit. Rev. Solid State Mater. Sci. 43 , 233-268 (2018).

Publisher's note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.

© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited 2020

## ARTiCLES

## Methods

EDLi. The electrolyte for Li metal deposition was commercial LP50 (BASF), which consists of 1.0 mol l -1 (1.0 M) lithium hexafluorophosphate (LiPF 6 ) in ethylene carbonate/ethyl methyl carbonate (EC/EMC, 50/50 wt%). The advanced electrolyte was a localized high-concentration electrolyte composed of lithium bis(fluorosulfonyl)imide (LiFSI), 1,2-dimethoxyethane (DME) and 1,1,2,2-tetrafluoroethyl-2,2,3,3-tetrafluoropropyl ether (TTE) at a molar ratio of 1:1.2:3. Na metal was deposited from the electrolyte containing 1.0 M sodium hexafluorophosphate (NaPF 6 ) in propylene carbonate (PC). The electrolyte for K plating was 1.0 M potassium hexafluorophosphate (KPF 6 ) in DME. A combination of phenyl magnesium chloride (PhMgCl) and aluminium chloride (AlCl 3 ) in tetrahydrofuran (THF) was used for the Mg deposition, and its concentration was 0.25 M. The Zn metal was obtained from the electrolyte of 0.25 M zinc bis(trifluoromethanesulfonyl) imide (Zn(TFSI) 2 ) in DME. These materials were stored and handled in a glovebox with &lt; 0.1 ppm H 2 O and &lt; 0.1 ppm O 2 .

The samples for the cryo-TEM were prepared by electrochemical deposition of metal species directly onto a lacey carbon grid in a coin cell. After deposition, the grid was harvested from the cell and lightly rinsed with dimethyl carbonate (DMC) or DME to remove any trace amount of salt on the grid in the glovebox. For the Li metal samples, both types of sample transfer methods were used in this work; the data shows identical trends and leads to the same conclusions. A cooling holder was used for the Mg and Zn metals while a cryo-transfer holder was used for the Na and K. When the cooling holder was used, the TEM samples were loaded on the holders in the homemade glovebox purged with continuous Ar gas at a pressure of 50 ml min -1 . Then the cooling holder with samples was transferred to the TEM at room temperature while the same Ar purging was continuously followed with the samples. Liquid N 2 was added in the cooling holder; it took about 1 h for samples to reach and stabilize at the temperature around 100 K. When the cryo-transfer holder was used, the samples were taken out from the well-sealed container and quickly immersed into the liquid N 2 in the homemade glovebox purged with continuous Ar gas at a pressure of 50 ml min -1 . The cryo-transfer holder was cooled first, and then the sample was loaded onto it in the liquid N 2 . The cryo-transfer holder with samples was transferred to the TEM at the cryo temperature. The cryo-TEM micrographs were recorded on a JEM-2100F cryo-TEM equipped with OneView and K2 cameras and a field-emission gun operated at 200 keV . The images were taken at a magnification of × 500,000 with a dose of ~70 e Å -2 s -1 when the temperature of the samples reached about 100 K. All the sample preparation processes avoided any exposure to air to minimize possible chemical alterations to the samples. Detailed sample preparation and transfer procedures have been reported in a previous reference 17 and are summarized in Supplementary Fig. 2. Electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS) was performed on the JEOL Grand Arm 300CF TEM/STEM operated at 300 kV . The spectra of the Li K edge were acquired from an energy of 20-90 eV with a pixel size of 1 eV and exposure time of 1.0 s, and processed with a subtracted background. The energy resolution of EELS is 0.7 eV . SEM images were recorded with Zeiss Sigma 500 field-emission scanning electron microscopy on a JEOL JSM-6700F operating at 10 kV . The X-ray diffraction signals were collected on an X'Pert Pro MPD X-ray diffractometer (D8 Advance with a LynxEye\_XEdetector, Bruker) with Cu KR1 radiation ( λ = 1.5405  Å), and Kapton tape was used to seal the Li deposits.

The r-MD computation details. The r-MD simulation technique was used to simulate the complex atomic-scale Li nucleation, coarsening, condensation and phase transition in the kinetic pathway towards phase stability, over a temporal scale of a few nanoseconds. In this process, we retain the causality and accuracy of the quantum mechanical calculations while minimizing the computational burden. A general ReaxFF reactive force field 24 dependent on bond order and bond distance was used to model all atomic interactions. The ReaxFF reactive force field enabled the dynamic formation and breaking of the Li-Li chemical bonds during simulation. Various bond-order-dependent and bond-order-independent energy terms contributed to the total ReaxFF force field energy, where the total energy is given by the following:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where E b , E over , E under , E lp , E val , E tor , E vdw and E Coul are the bond, over-coordination, under-coordination, lone-pair, valence, torsion, van der Waals and Coulombic contributions, respectively. A detailed description of the partial energy contributions and their bond-order dependence and/or independence can be found in the literature 24 . The accuracy and the transferability of the ReaxFF reactive force field are typically dictated by the quality of the quantum mechanical data (or the training set) used during the ReaxFF force field parameterization. The Li ReaxFF force field parameters used in this investigation were extensively trained to reproduce the phase stability, the equation of the state, the lattice parameters and the cohesive energies of different Li metal phases.

Various possible atomistic configurations were investigated by varying the system size (that is, ensembles with the total number of Li atoms in the system in the range of 500-1,500 atoms) and the initial energy state of each configuration (the 3D position of Li atoms) on the potential energy surface. Each ensemble could be equated to a unique situation in current density. A systematic heating, quenching and equilibration protocol was used to perform all energy minimization simulations, aiming to capture the temporal evolution of Li atom aggregation during their nucleation, coarsening and condensation stages towards phase stability. The simulated protocol included heating of the Li atoms confined in a canonical (NVT) ensemble ( ρ = 0.0534 g cm -3 ) at 500 K for 0.1 ns, quenching to 300 K for 0.2 ns and equilibration for 5 ns to allow energy minimization at 300 K. The time integration of the Nose-Hoover-style non-Hamiltonian equations of motion was used to generate atom positions and velocities sampled from the NVT ensemble. A time step of 0.5 fs was used in all simulations unless specified.

The influence of the additional constraints including the energy transfer (for example, systems with and without heating and quenching before equilibration), the mass transfer (for example, systems with periodic and non-periodic boundary conditions) and the confinement level (for example, systems with a packing density of ρ = 0.13, 0.26 and 0.47 g cm -3 ) were also investigated with ensembles comprised of 600 Li atoms in a case study. Furthermore, additional simulations were performed with ensembles of 600 Li atoms ( ρ = 0.0534 g cm -3 ) with relatively shorter time steps (0.1 fs and 0.25 fs) to investigate the sensitivity of the causality dependence on the time step. All initial molecular configurations were generated and the simulation set-up performed in the Scienomics MAPS interface environment (Version 4.0.1, 2016), whereas LAMMPS molecular dynamics simulation code was used to perform all atomistic simulations 25 . Finally, all visualizations of the atomic trajectory were performed with the Ovito program 27 .

To determine and estimate the fraction of Li atoms in the ensemble that constitute the bcc lattice structure (that is, to distinguish different phases and estimate their relative abundance), the adaptive common neighbour analysis (a-CNA) method proposed by Stukowski et al. 27,31  was used. The a-CNA method uses the local cut-off distance (determined from the nearest neighbouring atoms) as the criterion to identify and distinguish a typical phase (for example bcc, fcc or hcp stacking in the lattice) in a given lattice structure.

A quasi-3D aerial surface area of 112.3 ( L ) × 0.702 ( D ) × 35.1  ( H )  nm 3 was used here to simulate the rate effects on Li deposition. Three Li deposition rates, 1 Li ps -1 (high), 0.5 Li ps -1 (medium) and 0.25 Li ps -1 (low), were used. The total simulation time was 45 ns with a time step of 1 fs in each case. All simulations were performed with the LAMMPS simulation package and MEAM force field.

## Data availability

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding authors upon reasonable request. Source data are provided with this paper.

## Acknowledgements

We thank the UC Irvine Materials Research Institute (IMRI) for the use of the Cryo-Electron Microscopy Facility and Kratos XPS, funded in part by the National Science Foundation Major Research Instrumentation Program under grant no. CHE-1338173. We thank X. Pan, T. Aoki, L. Xing and J.-G. Zheng for their assistance with the microscopy. Work at the Molecular Foundry was supported by the Office of Science, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, of the US Department of Energy under contract no. DE-AC02-05CH11231. The SEM was performed in part at the San Diego Nanotechnology Infrastructure (SDNI), a member of the National Nanotechnology Coordinated Infrastructure, which is supported by the National Science Foundation (grant ECCS-1542148). We also thank A. van Duin of the Pennsylvania State University for providing the ReaxFF parameters used in this work. We thank W . Xu and M. Olguin for discussing the results. This work is supported by the Assistant Secretary for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, Office of Vehicle Technologies of the US Department of Energy in the Advanced Battery Materials Research (BMR) Program (Battery500 Consortium). Idaho National Laboratory (INL) is operated by Battelle Energy Alliance under contract no. DE-DE-AC07-05ID14517 for the US Department of Energy.

## Author contributions

X.W., Y.S.M. and B.L. conceived the idea. X.W . designed the experiments and conducted the cryo-TEM. Y.L., B.L., M.Z. and A.B. helped with cell making, electrochemical performance evaluation, EELS and SEM. X.W., Y.L. and Y.S.M. analysed and discussed the experimental data. X.W . and Y.L. made the schematic images. G.P ., E.D. and B.L. developed the concept of the r-MD approach. G.P. conducted the simulation work. B.L. provided the major interpretation and discussion of the r-MD results in the paper. X.R. and J.Z. provided the advanced electrolyte and the anode-free electrochemical performance. P.L., J.X., J.L. and E.D. participated in discussing the results and commenting on the manuscript. The manuscript was mainly written and revised by X.W., B.L., G.P . and Y.S.M. All authors approved the final version of the manuscript.

## Competing interests

The authors declare no competing interests.

## Additional information

Extended data is available for this paper at https://doi.org/10.1038/s41563-020-0729-1. Supplementary information is available for this paper at https://doi.org/10.1038/

s41563-020-0729-1.

Correspondence and requests for materials should be addressed to Y.S.M. or B.L. Reprints and permissions information is available at www.nature.com/reprints.

Extended Data Fig. 1 | influence of local mass transport, energy transfer and current density (as represented by packing density) on the nucleation and phase transition of Li metal deposits by using ensembles of 600 Li atoms as the basis for the simulation. The packing density in a-d is 0.0534, 0.13, 0.27 and 0.47 g cm -3 respectively. The crystal structure (that is the bcc lattice) is represented in blue, whereas the amorphous fractions or phases in white or grey.

## NATURE MATERIALS

Extended Data Fig. 2 | Cryo-TEM images ( a-d ) and their FFT patterns ( e-h ) of Li deposits at 0.5 mA cm -2 for 2h. besides (110) plane of Li metal, lattice fringes or FFT spots with lattice spacing of ~0.174 and ~0.142 nm was also observed, which belongs to the (200) and (211) planes of Li metal, respectively. Specially in d and h, both (200) and (110) planes of Li metal are present, which helps to determine the zone axis of [001] and confirm the phase of Li metal.

Extended Data Fig. 3 | Cryogenic STEM image ( a ), EELS Mapping ( b ) and spectra ( c ) of EDLi obtained at 0.5 mA cm -2  for 2h. The EELS mapping ( b ) is based on the intensity EELS spectra ranging from 53.5 eV to 58.5 eV (highlighted by the blue square in c ), which contains the characteristic metallic/ elemental Li K-edge threshold at about 55 eV. c presents the EELS spectra taken from Area 1 and Area 2 (labeled in b ) representing the feature of highly crystalline Li and glassy Li respectively. Due to the presumed same SEI on the surface of Area 1 and Area 2, they show similar extended fine structure of Li K-edge after 60 eV. both of them have the obvious characteristic metallic/elemental Li K-edge threshold at about 55 eV while the highly crystalline Li Area 1 shows a peak with slightly higher intensity than the glassy Li Area 2. This is reasonable due to the different degree of order/disorder structure in these two areas. It is worth to noting that it is difficult to obtain the higher-resolution STEM mapping due to the radiation damage caused by the high-energy beam used for STEM scanning even at cryogenic temperature.

Extended Data Fig. 4 | Nanostructure evolution of Na, K, Mg and Zn deposits as a function of current density. TEM images ( a-d and i-l ) and the corresponding FFT patterns (e-h and m-p ) of Na at 0.1 mA cm -2 ( a and e ) and 0.5 mA cm -2 ( i and m ), K at 0.1 mA cm -2 ( b and f ) and 0.5 mA cm -2 ( j and n ), Mg at 0.05 mA cm -2 ( c and g ) and 0.1 mA cm -2 ( k and o ) and Zn at 0.1 mA cm -2 ( d and h ) and 0.5 mA cm -2 ( l and p ). The crystalline portion of the Na, K, Mg, and Zn deposits are labeled by the white dash lines.