## Guidelines for Impedance Analysis of Parent Metal Anodes in Solid-State Batteries and the Role of Current Constriction at Interface Voids, Heterogeneities, and SEI

Janis K. Eckhardt,* Till Fuchs, Simon Burkhardt, Peter J. Klar, Jürgen Janek, and Christian Heiliger

Impedance spectroscopy is widely used in operando studies of solid-state batteries for characterizing charge transport and correlating it with structural features. A typical impedance spectrum reveals, in addition to transport signals of the solid electrolyte, one or more contributions due to processes taking place at the electrode interfaces. The focus of this study is on reversible (parent) metal anodes and a 3D electric network model is used to analyze the variation of their impedance as a function of pressure, temperature, or aging during cycling. This provides a recipe for experimentalists on how to identify impedance contributions arising from di/uniFB00erent interface e/uniFB00ects, such as, charge transfer, dynamic current constriction, and solid electrolyte interphase formation. Rules are derived for assigning the di/uniFB00erent interface signals or identifying the dominant contribution in case of similar frequencydependence and a standard procedure for analysis is proposed. The suggested procedure is applied to experimental data of half cells where lithium metal is in contact with garnet-type Li 6.25 Al 0.25 La3Zr2O12. This case study yields unambiguously that geometric current constriction due to morphological instabilities at the metal anode interface during cycling is the rate-limiting step for this type of metal anode, rather than the frequently assumed polarization resistance of the electric charge transfer migration process.

## 1. Introduction

Electrochemical  energy  storage  devices  become  increasingly important in the view of the growing share of renewable energy sources  in  power  generation.  The  successful  implementation  of  the  parent  metal  anode  in  secondary  batteries  can  be

J. K. Eckhardt, C. Heiliger Institute for Theoretical Physics Justus Liebig University Heinrich-Bu/uniFB00-Ring 16, D-35392 Giessen, Germany E-mail: janis.k.eckhardt@theo.physik.uni-giessen.de

DOI: 10.1002/admi.202202354

considered a new milestone in the development of novel or improved battery technologies with higher energy densities and  lifetimes. [1-3] By  replacing  graphite, the currently most widespread anode material, with lithium, the theoretical specific  capacity  on  the  anode  side  can be  increased  by  approximately  a  factor  of 10.  However,  the  side  reactions  occurring due to the high reactivity of alkali  metals in  general  result  in  severe  challenges. [4-6] Dendrites can lead to short circuits and,  together  with  liquid  electrolytes,  to fires. [7-9]   A major research focus is on the substitution of the common liquid electrolyte  by  a  solid  electrolyte  (SE)  in  order  to suppress  the  growth  of  dendrites,  on  the one hand, and to reduce the flammability of  the  batteries,  on  the  other  hand.  SEs are  applied  as  both  separators  and  catholyte  components  in  all-solid  state  battery systems.  However,  the  chemical,  kinetic and thermodynamic stability of the metal anode | SE  interface, in particular,  poses a  major  challenge  in  the  development process.

In  this  study,  we  focus  on  the  separator  SE  that  will  be  in direct  contact  with  the  alkali  metal.  Several  inorganic  SE ceramics are not chemically stable against the respective alkali  metal,  which  can  lead  to  the  formation  of  a  resistive solid electrolyte interphase (SEI) that strongly a/uniFB00ects  the  electric  transport  properties  of  the  battery  cell.  For  example,  the

J. K. Eckhardt, T. Fuchs, S. Burkhardt, P. J. Klar, J. Janek, C. Heiliger

Center for Materials Research (ZfM)

Justus Liebig University

Heinrich-Bu/uniFB00-Ring 16, D-35392 Giessen, Germany

T. Fuchs, S. Burkhardt, J. Janek Institute of Physical Chemistry Justus Liebig University Heinrich-Bu/uniFB00-Ring 17, D-35392 Giessen, Germany

P. J. Klar

Institute of Experimental Physics I Justus Liebig University Heinrich-Bu/uniFB00-Ring 16, D-35392 Giessen, Germany

www.advancedsciencenews.com phenomenon  of  SEI  formation  plays  a  major  role  in  argyrodite-type  SEs  versus  lithium  metal  or  sulfide-like  variants  of Na3PS4 versus sodium metal. [10-16]  In addition, the mechanical properties of the solid materials involved have a major impact on the battery cells' performance. Unlike in the case of liquid electrolytes,  a  complicated  interface  morphology  arises,  when two  solids  come  into  mechanical  contact.  The  contact  formation depends, for example, on contact pressure, surface roughness,  and  the  corresponding  hardness of both materials. This can lead to the formation of pores of di/uniFB00erent shapes, sizes and depths  at  the  interface.  Similar  interface  morphologies  occur upon  plating  or  stripping  of  the  metal  electrode  and  the  corresponding formation or annihilation of lattice defects, as originally suggested by Janek et al. [17-19]

Impedance spectroscopy (IS) is particularly suited for monitoring  changes  at  the  alkali  metal | SE  interface  during  operation  due  to  comparably  short  measurement  times.  Individual contributions originating from microscopic transport processes within  the  SE  (e.g.,  transport  through  the  bulk  of  grains  or across grain boundaries (GB)) may be separated from interface signals, if they di/uniFB00er in their characteristic time constants. The measured impedance data is mostly analyzed using 1D equivalent  circuit  models,  although  the  actual  transport  through the  real  system  is  typically  multidimensional  and  frequencydependent. [20-22]  As a result, this simplified analysis impedes a clear correlation between the macroscopic impedance response and microscopic transport processes, as mesoscopic phenomena such as dynamic current constriction (Cstr) due to the sample's morphology cannot be grabbed adequately. [23]

Nevertheless,  experimental  impedance  data  provide  a  powerful  tool  to  correlate  transport  and  structural  properties  and thus  for  operando  monitoring  of  morphological  changes,  for example, at the interface between metal anode and solid electrolyte. Such impedance spectra exhibit one or more signals due to the interface. Recipes for experimentalists to assign the characteristics of these interface signals to the chemical and structural properties of the interface and the microscopic and mesoscopic transport  processes  across  the  interface  are  currently  lacking. In the literature, the interface impedance is often simply attributed to an electric charge transfer (CT) process or SEI formation  in  the  case  of  chemically  unstable  interfaces.  Other  processes that may become rate-limiting, such as di/uniFB00usion of the reduced/oxidized species in the interface region, are only rarely considered.

Another important geometric e/uniFB00ect that may a/uniFB00ect the interface impedance is dynamic current constriction. In the case of reversible  metal  anodes  under  anodic  current  load  (i.e.,  stripping), the accumulation of metal vacancies causes pore formation  at  the  interface.  This  leads  to  a  shrinkage  of  the  electrochemically active surface area and an altering of the electrical and electrochemical properties. [24-28] Recent theoretical studies by Eckhardt et al. [29-30] and earlier work of Maier and Fleig [31-36] demonstrated that such pores lead to an additional geometric constriction resistance. Interestingly, the constriction e/uniFB00ect can give rise to a separate semicircle in the Nyquist representation of the impedance data, resulting in a fingerprint that resembles a  microscopic  electric  migration  process.  The  corresponding impedance  contribution,  however,  is  not  a  microscopic  transport process, but rather a global e/uniFB00ect, which involves basically

Adv. Mater. Interfaces 2023 , 10 , 2202354

www.advmatinterfaces.de all  the  di/uniFB00erent  microscopic  transport  processes  occurring  at the interface and adjacent regions.

The pore system is electrically insulating at low frequencies f of  an  exciting electric field, but it becomes dielectrically conductive  at  high  frequencies.  This  change  of  conductivity  with excitation frequency corresponds to a variation of the transport channels, where ions are injected into the SE. The whole electrode area and the entire SE volume can actively contribute to the transport through the system as long as pores at the interface are dielectrically conductive ( Z Pore ≈ 0 Ω , displacement current). Insulating pores ( Z Pore → ∞ Ω , electric current), however, lead to spatially focused (i.e., 'constricted') ionic current lines at the remaining physical contact spots. The resulting constriction leads to a decrease of the active SE volume, which consequently causes a higher impedance.

SEI formation, CT between metal anode and SE or geometric current  constriction,  to  name  just  a  few  possible  reasons,  are all  e/uniFB00ects  related  to  the  interface  and  contribute  to  the  impedance response of the apparently reversible parent metal anode. In  this  study,  we  use  a  3D  electric  network  model  to  derive approaches,  which  allow  experimentalists  to  analyze  the  interface impedance in terms of its origin and to identify the underlying microscopic process(es). For this purpose, the dependence of  individual  interface  e/uniFB00ects  on  stack  pressure  (i.e.,  contact area) and temperature are discussed. On this basis, we propose a novel approach and guideline for analyzing impedance data of electrode systems with chemically stable interfaces. This is validated by an experimental case study of a well-established system consisting  of  a  lithium  metal  anode  in  contact  with  a  garnettype SE and corroborated by references to other published data. It  reveals that current constriction due to morphological instabilities rather than the frequently assumed electric CT process is the rate-limiting step in the case of the system under study.

## 2. Computational Details

## 2.1. Description of the Model Structures

The 3D model systems considered comprise a dense polycrystalline  solid  electrolyte  sandwiched  between  a  metal  working electrode  (WE)  and  a  metal  counter  electrode  (CE)  as  shown in Figure 1 a.  The WE | SE interface is assumed to be non-ideal (e.g.,  porous),  while  an  ideally-reversible  and  stable  physical contact  at  the  CE | SE  interface  is  assumed  serving  as  a  quasireference electrode (QRE). [37]   We assume a cubic shape of the SE ( L x = L y = L z )  corresponding to a volume of (100 µ m) 3 and a thickness of 10 nm for the GBs including the adjacent spacecharge region. [37-38]   The non-ordered microstructure of the SE based on an average grain size of 10 µ m is generated by using a Voronoi algorithm. We consider the same fixed typical microstructure  of  the  SE  in  all  series  of  simulations  performed, where  the  relative  physical  contact  area A WE | SE = A WE/ A SE between WE and SE is varied. This enables a direct comparability of the computational results obtained for di/uniFB00erent materials parameters that can be assigned to interfaces, grains, and grain  boundaries.  It  should  be  noted  that  the  derived  conclusions  are  general  in  nature  and  can  also  be  applied  to  larger system sizes.

www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.advmatinterfaces.de

Figure 1. Schematic description of the 3D computational model systems. a) The cubic SE (yellow) is sandwiched between two metal electrodes (dark gray). The non-ideal WE | SE interface morphology is described by a separate quasi-2D layer of constant thickness. b) The e/uniFB00ect of (1) pores and (2) an SEI or passivation is systematically studied using an impedance network model. Pores (white) are modeled as local capacitors, while the SEI or passivation (light blue) is described by local RC -elements with large resistivity. c) Overview of di/uniFB00erent (1) inhomogeneous and (2) homogeneous interface morphologies investigated. The former are derived from stress maps based on a multi-scale, time-dependent, 3D contact model reported by Zhang et al. Adapted with permission. [39] Copyright 2020, Elsevier.

The number of geometric model parameters for describing the WE | SE interface morphology is strongly reduced by focusing on a quasi-2D layer of constant thickness δ Int . The latter is set to 10 -4 of the transport length L z  and kept constant throughout all studies.  The  e/uniFB00ect  of  this  parameter  on  the  impedance  is  discussed elsewhere. [29] In each series of computations, the relative physical contact area A WE | SE  is systematically varied in size from 100% describing  an  ideal  contact  to  0%  assuming  a  complete loss  of  contact.  Such  a  loss  or  degradation  of  physical  contact in real samples results either from pores or resistive inclusions (see Figure 1b). Experimental information on the explicit interface morphology at the mesoscale is di/uniFB03cult to access. Therefore,  we  consider  four  realistic  inhomogeneous  morphologies derived  from  lithium-surface-stress  maps  based  on  a  multiscale,  time-dependent,  3D  contact  model  published  by  Zhang et  al. [39] The  reported  rectangular  stress  maps  at  various  stack pressures  were  digitized,  binarized,  discretized,  and  extended via translation and rotation considerations to fit the geometry of our cubic 3D model system (see Figure 1c). In addition, we use two simplified interface geometries for comparison, whose ratio A WE/ A SE   can  be  continuously varied between ideal contact and no contact. One consists of a single square-shaped contact spot, and the second of a frame-like contact structure.

## 2.2. Description of the 3D Impedance Network and Choice of Materials Parameters

We use our  3D  electric  network  model  developed  to  describe the ion transport throughout the system. [29-30] RC -elements represent the electric transport processes within the SE (i.e., bulk and  GB  transport)  in  the  nodal  network.  The  redox  reaction either oxidizing Me 0  or reducing Me + ions at the alkali metal | SE interfaces (i.e., the CT step) is also described by an RC -element based  on  a  polarization  resistance R Pol   and  a  double-layer capacitance C DL.  The  notation  of  both  microscopic  parameters results from the Butler-Volmer description of the charge transfer across an interface. The pores and resistive inclusions or  passivation  reducing  the  physical  contact  area A WE | SE   are mimicked by a capacitor and a RC -element with a large resistivity,  respectively.  It  should  be  noted  that  we  do  not  consider low-frequency di/uniFB00usion processes in the system. The transport within the lithium metal electrode is assumed to be resistancefree. The same holds true, without loss of generality, for the CT step at the QRE. A detailed description about setting up the 3D electric network model and computing an impedance spectrum is given in our previous studies. [23,29-30]

We used the standard formulas for resistors and plate capacitors to calculate the values of the local circuit elements in the di/uniFB00erent  layers  of  the  sample.  We  chose  as  specific  transport parameters  values  matching  the  garnet-type  solid  electrolyte Li 6.25 Al0.25 La3Zr2O12  (LLZO).  The  relative  permittivity  was  set to ε Bulk = ε GB = 150. [37,40-41] The  bulk  ( σ Bulk = 0.46  mS  cm -1 , E a,Bulk = 0.34 eV) and GB ( σ GB = 5.97 µ S cm -1 , E a,GB = 0.43 eV) conductivities  at  room  temperature  were  determined  from temperature-dependent measurements. [37] The polarization resistance R Pol   describing the CT between metal electrode and SE was assumed to be 0.5 Ω cm 2 ( E a,CT = 0.43  eV).  Three different parameter pairs for the double-layer capacitance C DL and the  pore  capacitance  C Pore were  assumed  to  ensure  a  specific order  of  the  characteristic  time  constants  of  CT  and  dynamic constriction,  i.e.,  (1.77  F  cm -2 ,  885 µ F  cm -2 )  for τ Cstr &lt; τ CT , (1771 µ F cm -2 ,  443 µ F cm -2 )  for τ Cstr ≈ τ CT ,  and  (177 µ F cm -2 , 4425 µ F cm -2 )  for τ CT &lt; τ Cstr .  The  area-specific resistance  R SEI and capacitance  C SEI of  the  resistive  SEI  at  the  interface  were assumed to be 100 Ω cm 2 and  88 µ F  cm -2 ,  respectively.  Note that the single interface parameters are not necessarily related to the Li | LLZO interface.

www.advancedsciencenews.com

## 2.3. Analysis of the Experimental Impedance Data and the Computed Impedance Series

All impedance spectra, those derived by the 3D network modelling and those obtained experimentally for the case study, were analyzed in the frequency domain by fitting them with an 1D equivalent  circuit  model.  It  consists  of  four RC -elements  connected in series representing bulk and GB transport within the SE,  dynamic  current  constriction,  and  CT  at  the  WE | SE interface. The resulting parameter pairs ( Ri ,  C i )  with i = (Bulk, GB, Cstr,  CT)  represent  the  macroscopic  quantities  of  the  single transport  e/uniFB00ects.  The  theoretical  and  experimental  impedance data  were  also  evaluated  in  the  time  domain  by  performing  a distribution  of  relaxation  times  (DRT)  analysis.  Both  types of  analyses  were  performed  using  the  commercial  software RelaxIS 3 (version 3.0.20.16, rhd instruments GmbH &amp; Co. KG).

The computed series of impedance spectra based on the 3D electric network model are almost free of noise signals (see Figures 3-7). The Kramers-Kronig test yields negligible residuals in the order of 10 -6 %. [42] Therefore, all data points originating from these simulations were considered in the impedance analysis process, and only a small regularization term was required in the calculation of each DRT. [43]

Frequency points below 200 Hz were excluded in the analysis  of  the  experimental  impedance  data  shown  in  Figure  9, since  individual  residuals,  particularly  of  the  imaginary  part, were greater than 4% in the Kramers-Kronig test. [42]  The same holds for frequency points above 0.2 MHz, since the high frequency impedance contribution is only partially recorded in the measurement range. The corresponding DRT were calculated using exclusively the real part of the impedance as the residuals are in the range of a few 0.1% only, indicating high quality of the data. No additional data points were generated by interpolation and the second derivative of the distribution function γ ( τ ) was used in the Tikhonov regularization problem. [43]

## 3. Results

## 3.1. Challenges in Interpreting Experimental Impedance Data

An  experimental  system  for  investigating  reversible  metal anodes  consists  at  least  of  a  three-layer  stack  comprising www.advmatinterfaces.de

a  parent  metal  electrode  (e.g.,  Li,  Na,  Ag,  etc.),  a  highly dense  polycrystalline  SE,  and  a  counter  electrode.  Various transport  processes  are  expected  to  occur  in  such  systems, namely bulk transport and transport across GBs within the SE  and,  in  addition,  electric  CT  at  the  metal | SE  interface. Furthermore,  one  must  distinguish  between  electric  CT  at the  metal | SEI | SE boundary and dielectric conduction across the  metal | pore | SE  interface.  It  is  anticipated  that  several of  these  processes  may  be  separated  from  each  other  by  IS as they should possess a di/uniFB00erent dependence on frequency of  the  applied  external  electric  field. [44] Bulk  transport  processes typically possess characteristic frequencies in the high frequency range (i.e., several MHz) and GB transport in the medium  frequency  range  (i.e.,  several  kHz)  at  room  temperature.  Interface  contribution(s)  are  typically  expected  at lower frequencies. [44]

In  general,  the  impedance  response  of  all-solid  systems  is highly  a/uniFB00ected  by  the  solid | solid  interface  geometry. Figure 2 depicts  a  schematic  decision  tree,  whose  branches  correlate di/uniFB00erent  interface morphology scenarios with transport e/uniFB00ects reflected in the impedance signal of the interface. It is meant as  a  guideline  for  identifying  the  process(es)  that  are  likely  to dominate the metal anode | SE interface impedance in a specific scenario. The e/uniFB00ects accounted for are an electric CT step at the metal | SE interface, a resistive SEI or passivation, and geometric current  constriction  due  to  pores  or  inclusions.  It  should  be noted that we do not consider other processes such as transport limitations within the metal electrode.

From top to bottom of the decision tree, we distinguish on the  first  level  between  chemically  stable  and  unstable  interfaces,  on  the  second  level  between  ideal  ( A WE | SE = 100%)  and non-ideal  physical  contact  ( A WE | SE &lt; 100%),  and  on  the  third level between morphologically stable and unstable interfaces at the mesoscopic scale. The anticipated interface e/uniFB00ects for each branch of the decision tree are given at the bottom level. Apparently, only in a few cases one expects a single interface e/uniFB00ect to be  responsible  for  its  impedance  contribution  (e.g.,  outer  left branch). Additional constriction e/uniFB00ects are frequently expected in the case of non-ideal physical contacts. In such situations, it is very important to identify the dominant interface process(es) that lead to an increase in impedance, since the strategies for improving  the  electric  interface  characteristics  of  a  (battery) system depend on the dominant process.

Figure 2. E/uniFB00ect of the geometric interface morphology on the impedance response of the system. The interface impedance in all-solid systems is often composed not only of electric migration processes, but also of additional geometric e/uniFB00ects such as dynamic current constriction. Note that several other interface e/uniFB00ects such as constriction due to transport limitations within the metal electrode are not considered in the decision tree.

Adv. Mater. Interfaces 2023 , 10 , 2202354

www.advancedsciencenews.com

For  this  purpose,  measuring  a  single  impedance  spectrum of  a  sample  and  fitting  it  with  a  1D  equivalent  circuit  model is  not  su/uniFB03cient.  It  cannot  fully  resolve  the  significance  of  different  interface  e/uniFB00ects,  since  it  does  not  lead  to  individual characteristic  impedance  features.  Moreover,  often  only  one impedance  signal  assigned  to  the  interface  is  experimentally observed,  although  several  processes  contribute.  Therefore, establishing the relevance of di/uniFB00erent interface e/uniFB00ects typically requires  additional  experimental  input.  This  can  be  obtained, for  example,  by  systematic  variation  of  external  parameters and  monitoring  of  their  impact  on  the  sample's  impedance response.  This  comprises  in  particular,  experiments  where the  stack  pressure  is  varied  and  the  pristine  interface  with AWE | SE &lt; 100%  due  to  porosity  or  inclusions  becomes  almost ideal.  Although  such  experiments  cause  irreversible  changes of the sample's morphology, they allow to 'switch o/uniFB00' current constriction e/uniFB00ects. Similarly, temperature-dependent measurements yield activation energies of the macroscopic resistances extracted from the impedances accounted for in the 1D equivalent circuit model used for fitting the experimental impedance spectra.  This  is  helpful,  as  the  constriction  resistance  arises from  an  averaging  of  di/uniFB00erent  microscopic  electric  migration processes at the interface.

Such comprehensive impedance studies need to be complemented  by  direct  investigations  of  the  interface  morphology. The chemical stability of an interface can be studied by timeresolved  IS  measurements  complemented  by  well-established methods  such  as  X-ray  photoelectron  spectroscopy  (XPS)  or secondary-ion mass  spectrometry (SIMS). [45-47] The  quality of  the  physical  contact  and  its  morphological  stability  under operation can be probed using focused ion beam scanning electron  microscopy  (FIB  SEM). [48-50] Combining  all  these  e/uniFB00orts allows  experimentalists  to  correlate  changes  of  impedance spectra  during  cycling  with  degradation  of  the  cell  caused  by morphology  changes  at  the  metal  anode | SE  interface.  Thus, such studies are essential for optimizing all-solid-state batteries employing metal anodes in a systematic fashion.

## 3.2. Signatures of Various Interface Processes on the Impedance Response of Battery Systems

The  charge  transfer  at  the  metal | SE  interface,  the  successive formation  of  an  SEI,  passivation  or  pores  at  the  interface, they all a/uniFB00ect the interface characteristics in their own specific manner. To highlight their individual signatures in the impedance  response  of  the  system,  series  of  impedance  spectra  are computed using a 3D electric network model. Throughout each series,  we  systematically  vary  the  interface  morphology  of  the model system as depicted in Figure 1 for a given set of materials parameters. The computed impedance spectra were subsequently analyzed with a 1D equivalent circuit model consisting of  four RC -elements  connected  in  series  to  derive  the  macroscopic  transport  parameters  ( Ri , Ci )  of  bulk  and  GB  transport within the SE as well as CT and geometric constriction e/uniFB00ects due to pores or SEI formation at the interface. It should be noted that  assuming  a  constant  interface  thickness δ Int   throughout an  impedance  series  may  lead  to  an  overestimation  of  the  fit parameter τ Cstr = R Cstr∙ C Cstr   in  the  computations compared to

www.advmatinterfaces.de experimental observation, as the simultaneous decrease in δ Int somewhat  compensates  the  e/uniFB00ect  of  a  decreasing A WE | SE . [29] In  this  section,  we  first  systematically  investigate  the  branch of  chemically  stable  interfaces  within  the  decision  tree,  i.e., assuming  no  SEI  formation  or  passivation,  and  then  address chemically unstable interfaces with SEI formation.

## 3.2.1. E/uniFB00ect of Morphological Instabilities Due to Pore Formation at Chemically Stable Interfaces

We assume an interface that is free of a passivation or resistive SEI layer  in  this  subsection.  Such  a  situation  is,  for  example, experimentally  observed  for  lithium  metal  in  contact  with  a garnet-type SE. [51-54]  In the modelling, we keep the microstructure of the SE constant, whilst varying the pore distribution at the WE | SE interface. We compare the computational results of the  four  realistic  interface  morphologies  based  on  the  multiscale contact model [39]   with two simplified interface morphologies  consisting  of  one  square-shaped  contact  spot  and  one frame-like  contact  structure  whose  lateral  extensions  can  be varied  continuously  in  size,  as  shown  in  Figure  1c.  The  macroscopic transport parameters ( Ri , Ci )  extracted from the modelled impedance spectra by the 1D fitting approach are analyzed with  respect  to  their  dependence  on  interface  morphology, contact area, and temperature. Thereby, we consider three different pairs of parameters for the double-layer and pore capacitance (see Section 2) to explore the order of constriction and CT relaxation time on the scale of time constants, since τ Cstr  has a significant e/uniFB00ect on the shape of the impedance spectrum and thus the derived conclusions.

Influence of Inhomogeneous Interface Morphologies : Each of the graphs depicted  in Figure 3 a-c  shows  five  impedance  spectra in  Nyquist  representation  based  on  the  disordered  interface morphologies between WE and SE depicted on their right. The three  graphs  correspond  to  di/uniFB00erent  orders  of  interface  time constants, i.e., τ Cstr &lt; τ CT , τ Cstr ≈ τ CT , and τ CT &lt; τ Cstr , respectively. The  relative  contact  area A WE | SE   in  each  computation  series varies between 100% (bottom) and 22% (top). Three semicircles can  be  visually  observed,  when  considering  an  ideal  physical contact ( A WE | SE = 100%). These correspond to the two ion migration processes within the SE and the CT step at the interface. Bulk  and  GB  impedances  corresponding  to  the  blue  and  red semicircles, respectively, remain unchanged when reducing the contact area by pore formation. Pore formation lead to dynamic current  constriction  that  occurs  as  an  additional  geometric e/uniFB00ect  in  the  spectrum,  which  a/uniFB00ects  the  interface  impedance. As  a  general  trend,  the  DC  resistance  of  the  whole  electrode system  increases  with  decreasing A WE | SE ,  as  indicated  by  the shift of the outer impedance semicircle to the right. However, the  interface  response  di/uniFB00ers  in  detail  for  the  three  cases  of order of τ Cstr  and τ CT .

The  order  of  the  time  constants  determines  how  the  morphological changes at the interface are reflected in the impedance spectrum. For τ Cstr &lt; τ CT shown in Figure 3a, the change in impedance is related to the formation of an additional geometric constriction semicircle (yellow) between that of the GB (red)  and  the  CT  signal  (green).  In  addition,  the  CT  impedance contribution (green) at lower frequencies simultaneously

www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.advmatinterfaces.de

Figure 3. Computed series of impedance spectra in Nyquist representation and corresponding DRT analyses for various realistic WE | SE interface morphologies (inset) considering di/uniFB00erent orders of the time constants of CT and dynamic current constriction. The interface morphologies originate from simulated Li-surface-stress maps reported by Zhang et al. Adapted with permission. [39]  Copyright 2020, Elsevier. Note that the bulk impedance (blue) is not fully displayed for clarity and low-frequency di/uniFB00usion processes are not considered in the modeling. a-c) A porous interface leads to a constriction e/uniFB00ect (yellow), which results in an increase in impedance with decreasing contact area A WE | SE. The shape of the impedance and the changes of individual contributions depend on the order of the time constants of the interface processes involved. d-f) An inhomogeneous distribution of pores at the interface leads to additional DRT signals (black arrows) in the vicinity of the major constriction signal (yellow).

increases in size. In the case of similar time constants τ Cstr ≈ τ CT depicted  in  Figure  3b,  only  one  e/uniFB00ective  interface  semicircle (ochre)  can  be  visually  observed  in  the  Nyquist  representation  of  the  impedance  spectra  that  increases  in  size  with decreasing A WE | SE .  In  Figure  3c,  where  the  order  of  time  constants  is  reversed  ( τ CT &lt; τ Cstr ),  an  increasing  geometric  constriction semicircle (yellow) arises to the right of the CT signal (green) and dominates the interface impedance  response with decreasing A WE | SE ,  whilst  the  CT  impedance decreases. It should be noted, however, that the DC resistance in the three cases is independent of the arrangement of the time constants for all A WE | SE . This is not a universal e/uniFB00ect, but is related to the modeling of the di/uniFB00erent order of time constants τ i in the computations by adjusting the magnitude of the local capacitances in the 3D electric network, but not that of the local resistors. In the DC case ( f = 0 Hz), the impedance of a local RC -element is solely  given  by  its  ohmic  contribution.  This  is  due  to  the  fact that the capacitor is connected in parallel with a corresponding resistor  and  the  absolute  value  of  its  impedance  becomes infinity, i.e., | Z C( f = 0 Hz) | = ∞ Ω .

www.advancedsciencenews.com

To investigate the e/uniFB00ects of structural disorder and order of the time constants in more detail, we performed DRT analyses of the three series of impedance data as depicted in Figure 3d-f. Here, the amplitude of the leftmost signal (blue) corresponding to the bulk transport has been truncated in all DRT for a clearer data representation. The DRT corresponding to an ideal contact ( A WE | SE = 100%) consist of four signals independent of the order of  the  time  constants.  The  center  positions  of  three  signals match  the  (input)  time  constants  of  the  microscopic  electric transport processes in the system, i.e., bulk (blue) and GB (red) transport in the SE, and CT (green) at the WE | SE interface. The fourth signal in the vicinity of the GB time constant is related to the inhomogeneous synthetic microstructure of the SE and results  from  competing  transport  paths  through  the  system which  yield  slightly  di/uniFB00erent  time  constants.  The  occurrence of  this  e/uniFB00ect  in  inhomogeneous  samples  can  be  analytically proven as demonstrated in our previous work. [23]

In  the  case  of τ Cstr &lt; τ CT  shown  in  Figure  3d,  several  additional signals form in the intermediate time range between GB and CT relaxation time, when the contact area A WE | SE is reduced. The strong  dependence  of  the  time  constants  (central  position of these signals on the relaxation time axis) on A WE | SE , especially of the main signal, is a characteristic feature of their geometric origin.  In  comparison,  the  time  constant  of  a  microscopic  or local electric migration process does not depend on A WE | SE .  The dependence  of  these  signals  on A WE | SE reflects  that  dynamic constriction  is  a  global  e/uniFB00ect,  which  varies  with  the  interface morphology and averages over the time constants of the microscopic  processes  within  the  system.  The  smaller  geometric signals (indicated by black arrows in the graphs) result from the inhomogeneous  spatial  distribution  and  the  di/uniFB00erent  sizes  of the pores, since penetration depth and constriction region (i.e., the  region  in  which  equipotential  lines  are  not  parallel  to  the interface)  increase  with  pore  size.  This  implies  that  not  only  a pore  depth  distribution [29] leads  to  a  (strongly)  distorted  constriction impedance, but also an inhomogeneous interface morphology with a broad pore size distribution. Similar results were recently also observed experimentally. [55-56]  This finding is independent of the order of time constants. The signals related to the disorder (black arrows) shift with τ Cstr .  Thus, they are di/uniFB03cult to resolve in the case of τ Cstr ≈ τ CT ,  but  they  can  be  easily  observed again when τ CT &lt; τ Cstr .

We continue our analysis of the model results by extracting the  macroscopic  transport  parameters  ( Ri , Ci )  from  the  computed impedance spectra by fitting them with a 1D equivalent circuit  model. Figure 4 a-c  shows  the  evolution  of  the  charge transfer ( R CT , C CT , τ CT),  e/uniFB00ective  interface  ( R Int , C Int , τ Int ),  and dynamic constriction parameters ( R Cstr , C Cstr , τ Cstr ) as a function of A WE | SE  for the three cases of order of time constants τ CT and τ Cstr .  In  the  analysis,  we  also  considered  two  simplified  interface geometries, i.e., a single contact spot (blue triangles) and a frame-like contact spot (yellow squares), where A WE | SE  can be tuned  continuously,  in  addition  to  the  five  realistic  interface morphologies  (red  circles).  The  macroscopic  bulk  ( R Bulk )  and GB  transport  parameters  ( R GB)  are  given  as  horizontal  reference lines in green and orange, respectively, since both do not depend on the pore fraction at the two-phase boundary A WE | SE . The  reference  line  of  the  geometric  pore  capacitance C Pore is displayed in black.

www.advmatinterfaces.de

In the case of τ Cstr &lt; τ CT depicted in Figure 4a, the CT and constriction  resistances  ( R Cstr , R CT)  increase  with  decreasing A WE | SE .  The  constriction  capacitance C Cstr approaches  that  of the  pores C Pore and  the  CT  capacitance  C CT   decreases  with decreasing  contact  area A WE | SE .  The  time  constant  of  the  CT electric migration process is preserved, while that of geometric current  constriction  changes  by  about  three  orders  of  magnitude. The reason is that R Cstr tends  to  infinity  and  the  capacitance C Cstr tends  toward C Pore   when A WE | SE   goes  to  zero,  i.e., for  complete  loss  of  physical  contact.  The  CT  transport  parameters  ( R CT ,  CCT)  are  almost  una/uniFB00ected  by  the  distribution of the contact area at the interface for constant A WE | SE , in contrast to the geometric constriction parameters ( R Cstr , C Cstr ). Especially the resistance R Cstr is strongly a/uniFB00ected by the morphology of the interface. Its sensitivity on the distribution of the physical contact for fixed A WE | SE  increases with decreasing A WE | SE . The value of R Cstr is  the  lower,  the  finer  the  distribution  of  the  physical contact is at the interface. The constriction capacitance, on the other hand, is not a/uniFB00ected by the distribution of contact. This behavior is known and discussed in more detail in our previous work and also by Maier and Fleig. [29,33]

In  the  case  of τ Cstr ≈ τ CT ,  only  one  interface  signal  can  be visually  observed  in  the  modelled  impedance  spectra.  The corresponding  macroscopic  transport  parameters  ( R Int , C Int ) extracted by fitting with the 1D equivalent circuit model reflect the  superposition  of  CT  and  constriction  e/uniFB00ects,  as  shown  in Figure 4b. The electric CT migration process dominates for an ideal physical contact, but the impact of geometric constriction becomes  more  prominent  with  decreasing  contact  area.  The magnitude of the e/uniFB00ective resistance R Int  depends significantly on the interface morphology for small A WE | SE  similar to R Cstr in case of τ Cstr &lt; τ CT shown in Figure 4a. The e/uniFB00ective capacitance C Int converges  towards  a  certain  value  and  the  time  constant τ Int  increases by about 1.5 orders of magnitude with decreasing A WE | SE .  These  findings  clearly  indicate  that  the  impact  of  geometric constriction in the case of a single interface impedance signal  is  not  negligible,  in  particular,  when A WE | SE   is  smaller than 50%.

The qualitative behavior of the macroscopic CT parameters ( R CT , C CT) changes drastically, when the order of time constants is reversed, i.e., τ CT &lt; τ Cstr , whereas that of dynamic constriction ( R Cstr , C Cstr ) is only quantitatively a/uniFB00ected. Figure 4c highlights that  the  CT  resistance R CT  decreases  and  the  CT  capacitance C CT  increases  with  decreasing  contact  area A WE | SE .  The  trends of  these  two  macroscopic parameters with A WE | SE   are  opposite to those of the two cases shown in Figure 4a,b. The behavior is somewhat surprising at first glance, but it is related to di/uniFB00erent evolving  transport  paths  through  the  system  for  frequencies close to 1/ τ CT .  All  transport  channels  are  nearly  perpendicular to  the  interface  and  parallel  to  each  other,  i.e.,  not  constricted anymore,  since  the  pores  are  dielectrically  conductive  in  this frequency range. [30]  This is discussed in more detail in the next section.

Functional  Dependence  of  Charge  Transfer  and  Constriction Resistance on the Contact Area : The distinction between CT and constriction  impedance  is  simplified  if  both  contributions  are well-separated  in  the  spectrum.  This  is  usually  not  the  case in  experimental  data,  which  may  explain  why  di/uniFB00erent  functional relationships of what is summed up as interface resistance

21967350, 2023, 8, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/admi.202202354 by Readcube (Labtiva Inc.), Wiley Online Library on [11/12/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.advmatinterfaces.de

Figure 4. Evolution of the macroscopic transport parameters ( R i , C i , τ i ) of the interface contributions, considering di/uniFB00erent orders of time constants, i.e., a) τ Cstr &lt; τ CT , b) τ Cstr ≈ τ CT , and c) τ CT &lt; τ Cstr . The bulk (green) and GB (orange) parameters are independent of the pore fraction at the interface and shown as reference values. The CT parameters at constant contact area are nearly independent of the interface morphology but their qualitative behavior is not universal. It depends on the order of time constants. The constriction resistance, in contrast, depends on the distribution of the physical contact area at the interface.

www.advancedsciencenews.com under force application are discussed in the literature. [37,39] It is frequently  ignored  that  the  interface  impedance  can  have  different origins and therefore a di/uniFB00erent dependence of the corresponding resistance Ri and capacitance values Ci on external parameters,  such  as  stack  pressure.  This  underlines  the  need for a theoretical in-depth analysis in order to evaluate how the constriction  parameters  ( R Cstr , C Cstr )  and  the  CT  parameters ( R CT , C CT)  of  the  interface  impedance behave, when the physical  contact area A WE | SE   is  varied.  For  this  purpose, the macroscopic transport parameters of the three computed impedance series  shown  in  Figure  4  considering  di/uniFB00erent  orders  of  time constants τ Cstr and τ CT  are  further  analyzed  using  a  double logarithmic  data  representation,  i.e.,  log Ri versus  log A WE | SE and log Ci versus log A WE | SE .  This kind of data evaluation only holds,  if  the  QRE  does  not  a/uniFB00ect  the  derived  CT  parameters, i.e., Z QRE = 0 Ω . Otherwise, the o/uniFB00set due to the QRE needs to be subtracted from the CT parameters prior to calculating log Ri and log Ci .

The  constriction  resistance R Cstr in Figure 5 a,f  is  not  proportional to A WE|SE 1 -,  i.e.,  it  does  not  exhibit  a  slope  of -1  in  the double-logarithmic  data  representation  log R Cstr versus  log A WE | SE .  Once  the  constriction  signal  can  be  resolved  in  the impedance spectrum, R Cstr  increases by several orders of magnitude and may also become significantly larger than R CT . Starting from a constriction resistance of zero for an ideal interface contact ( A WE | SE = 100%), there is a sharp non-linear increase of log R Cstr as log A WE | SE   decreases, followed by an almost linear subregion  with  lower  resistance  increases  at  small  contact  areas. The general behavior, however, depends on the combination of the  geometric interface morphology, the phases present at the interface and the corresponding materials parameters. Nonetheless, the qualitative trends are independent of the order of the time constants, but the increase in constriction resistance R Cstr is somewhat more pronounced in the case of τ CT &lt; τ Cstr .

The  finding  that R Cstr is  not  proportional  to A WE|SE 1 -reflects the  mesoscopic  character  of  the  constriction  phenomenon. The  impact  of  a  variation  of  the  physical  contact  area A WE | SE is not restricted to the interface layer itself, but globally a/uniFB00ects the  transport  paths  taken  by  the  charge  carriers  through  the system.  Therefore,  geometric  parameters,  such  as  the  distribution of the pores or physical contact have a major e/uniFB00ect on the magnitude of R Cstr . [29,33]  This indicates that performing the same experiment in the laboratory several times on nominally identical samples will lead to a distribution of resistances R Cstr due to non-reproducible interface morphologies (i.e., geometric di/uniFB00erences  on  the  mesoscale).  The  impact  of  the  variation  of the  interface  morphology  on R Cstr is  particularly  pronounced at  small  physical  contact  areas.  In  consequence,  a  variance  in the corresponding experimental data is not necessarily due to uncertainty in the measurement or in the fitting process with a 1D equivalent circuit model. Instead, the variance may reflect a  change  of  the  interface  morphology  and,  thus,  be  at  least partially  of  geometric  origin.  Therefore,  the  measure  of  the impedance in applications may be used for health monitoring of the interface. If the same sample is measured several times, for example, repeatedly during cycling, and the resistance R Cstr changes, it is an indicator that the interface degrades. However, no simple functional or analytical relation between constriction resistance  and  contact  area A WE | SE   exists,  but  these  considera-

www.advmatinterfaces.de tions underline again the importance of the structural information about the interface morphology.

We  applied  the  same  procedure  to  evaluate  the  functional relationship  of  the  CT  resistance R CT  and  the  CT  capacitance C CT .  The  double  logarithmic  data  representation  in  Figure  5b for τ Cstr &lt; τ CT  shows  a  nearly  linear  relation  between  log R CT and log A WE | SE  that is almost independent of the interface morphology. Fitting the data with a linear function reveals slopes in the range of -1.03 and -1.08 for the three model systems considering  di/uniFB00erent  interface  morphologies.  Similar  results  are observed for the CT capacitance CCT , as shown in Figure 5c. It also depends linearly on the contact area with slopes between 1.02  and  1.08.  Interestingly,  the  functional  relationships  of R CT and C CT show a very di/uniFB00erent  behavior in the case of the reversed order of the time constants ( τ CT &lt; τ Cstr )  as  shown  in Figure  5g,h,  respectively.  The  data  representations  of  log R CT versus  log A WE | SE   now  exhibit  slopes  of  approximately + 1  and those of log C CT versus log A WE | SE   slopes of about -1. In other words,  the  sign  of  the  slopes  in  the  case  of  resistance  and capacitance is reversed with the order of the time constants.

At  first  glance,  this  finding  is  unexpected  because  CT  is a  microscopic  electric  migration  process  and,  therefore,  its impact should remain restricted to the interface, other than in the case of the mesoscopic constriction e/uniFB00ect. The macroscopic CT resistance and capacitance are expected to be proportional to  the  inverse  of  the  active  interface  area  ( R CT ∼ A WE|SE 1 -)  and proportional  to  the  active  interface  area  itself  ( C CT ∼ A WE | SE ), respectively. The deviating observations from this behavior are related  to  the  evolving  transport  paths  through  the  system.  In the case of τ Cstr &lt; τ CT ,  the  pores at the interface are insulating for  frequencies  when  the  CT  impedance  signal  arises.  Therefore,  the  active  fraction  of  the  interface  corresponds  to A WE | SE . This is why R CT ∼ A WE|SE 1 -and C CT ∼ A WE | SE  with slopes of -1 and + 1 for log R CT versus log A WE | SE   and log C CT versus log A WE | SE , respectively.  The  transport  situation  is  changed  when  considering the reversed order of time constants τ CT &lt; τ Cstr . The pores at  the  interface  are  dielectrically  conductive  in  the  frequency range of the CT impedance signal. If the conduction contribution across the pores is comparable to that across the physical contact spots, the current is homogeneously distributed across the  interface.  In  this  situation,  the  CT  resistance  will  linearly decrease R CT ∼ A WE | SE and CT  capacitance will increase C CT ∼ A WE|SE 1 -with  decreasing A WE | SE ,  i.e.,  increasing  coverage of  the  interface  with  pores.  Note  that  these  two  relationships only  provide  an  estimate  for  the  upper  and  lower  bound  of R CT  and C CT ,  respectively,  because  heterogeneous  current  distributions at the interface with respect to A WE | SE   and A WE | Pore | SE will lead to deviations. In particular, in the limiting case where conduction across the pores is orders of magnitude better than across  the  physical  contacts,  no  significant  CT  contribution  is expected  in  the  impedance  spectrum  since  the  dominant  current  paths  do  not  cross  physical  contact  spots.  The  observed deviations  of  the  absolute  values  of  the  slopes  of  the  linear fitting  curves  from  a  value  of  1  in  Figure  5b,c,g,h  are  due  to the  contributions  of  the  interface  areas  with  the  much  higher impedance, which are connected in parallel to the fraction of the interface carrying most of the transport, i.e., the pores in case of τ CT &lt; τ Cstr   and the physical contacts in case of τ CT &lt; τ Cstr .  This has been recently discussed in more detail in the literature. [30]

21967350, 2023, 8, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/admi.202202354 by Readcube (Labtiva Inc.), Wiley Online Library on [11/12/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.advmatinterfaces.de

Figure 5. Functional dependence of interface contributions with the contact area A WE | SE considering di/uniFB00erent orders of time constants, i.e., a-c) τ Cstr &lt; τ CT , d,e) τ Cstr ≈ τ CT , and f-h) τ CT &lt; τ Cstr . The dashed horizontal lines indicate an artificial o/uniFB00set along the y -axis for an improved comparability of the computational results. The non-linear behavior and strong dependence of R Cstr  on the interface morphology impedes the derivation of a universal functional relationship with the contact area. The CT resistance R CT  and capacitance C CT  are inversely proportional and proportional to the contact area, respectively, when τ Cstr &lt; τ CT . The dependence of both parameters on the contact area is reversed in the case of τ CT &lt; τ Cstr . The slight variations in the slop of the linear fits are due to the competing dielectric transport process through the pores at the interface.

The dependence of the e/uniFB00ective interface parameters ( R Int ,  CInt )  on  the  physical  contact  area A WE | SE is  shown  in Figure 5d,e. These macroscopic transport quantities correspond  to  the  situation  in  which  only  one  interface  impedance contribution  can  be  observed,  i.e.,  the  intermediate  case  where τ Cstr ≈ τ CT .  As  somewhat anticipated from the discussion above, no  simple  functional  relationships  are  found  between  log R Int versus log A WE | SE and log C Int versus log A WE | SE  because both, geometric constriction e/uniFB00ect and CT contribute to one single signal. Starting  from  a  minimum  value  at  an  ideal  contact,  the  resistance  log R Int increases  and  the  capacitance  log C Int decreases non-linearly with decreasing log A WE | SE . The quantitative behavior observed depends on the interface morphology and the interplay of the materials parameters, as in the case of the pure constriction impedance. In particular, it is very sensitive to a variation of the polarization resistance describing the microscopic CT process.

So  far,  the  following  conclusions  can  be  drawn  from  the discussion:

- i) In the case of a porous interface, the geometric constriction e/uniFB00ect disappears on the mesoscopic scale, when pressure is applied to the stack and the pores at the interface are closed due to plastic electrode deformation. In this limit and under the  assumptions  of  chemical  and  thermodynamic  stability of the interface, the interface impedance response is solely determined by the CT e/uniFB00ect.

www.advancedsciencenews.com

- ii)  The  macroscopic  constriction  parameters  ( R Cstr , C Cstr )  may di/uniFB00er even at the same A WE | SE , if the morphology of the interface on the microscopic and mesoscopic scale varies, i.e., the spatial  distribution  of  the  physical  contact  area  across  the interface  changes.  The  impact  of  geometric  constriction  is not negligible over a wide range of relative physical contact areas A WE | SE , in particular for A WE | SE &lt; 50%. Charge-transferdriven morphological instabilities of interfaces always lead to an increase of the DC resistance independent of the microscopic polarization resistance underlying the CT process. As a  result,  geometric  current  constriction  will  have  a  major e/uniFB00ect, for example, on the cycling behavior of battery cells.
- iii) The functional relationship between the macroscopic transport parameters ( Ri , Ci )  of  electric  migration processes like CT and the relative physical contact area A WE | SE   is  not  universal. It depends on the order of the time constants of individual  interface  impedance  contributions.  The  correlation R CT ∼ A WE|SE 1 -only holds for estimating the magnitude of the CT resistance R CT , if the condition τ Cstr &lt; τ CT is fulfilled. In the case of τ CT &lt; τ Cstr , the resistance R CT depends linearly on the  contact  area R CT ∼ A WE | SE .  Similarly,  for  the  CT  capacitance, it holds C CT ∼ A WE | SE   for τ Cstr &lt; τ CT and C CT ∼ A WE|SE 1 -for τ CT &lt; τ Cstr .

Temperature  Dependence  of  Charge  Transfer  and  Constriction Resistance :  Battery cells are exposed to di/uniFB00erent environmental conditions  in  applications.  Thus,  studies  of  the  influence  of the  environment  on  the  cell  performance  are  essential.  The temperature-dependence is of particular interest, since internal (e.g.,  heating)  and  external  (e.g.,  ambient)  temperature  variations  occur  during  operation  in  most  applications  and  will lead  to  changes  of  all  impedance  contributions.  The  previous discussion  of  the  dependence  of  the  macroscopic  parameters ( R Cstr , C Cstr )  and  ( R CT , C CT)  on  stack  pressure  (i.e.,  physical contact area) has already underlined that their behavior is very di/uniFB00erent.  The  former  can  be  considered as geometric fit parameters  in  macroscopic  1D  equivalent  circuit  models,  whereas the later  represent an electric transport process on the microscopic level. This implies that the resistance R Cstr is  not  solely based on a conductivity or microscopic polarization resistance, but  parameterizes  the  dynamic  constriction  e/uniFB00ect.  It  is  determined by contributions of all microscopic transport processes taking  place  close  to  the  interface,  and,  in  a  sense,  leads  to  a reduced active SE volume involved in the transport through the sample.  In  consequence,  the  temperature-dependence  of  the geometric parameter R Cstr  is not obvious and needs to be investigated  as  all  the  microscopic  electric  transport  processes  that contribute to it may have a di/uniFB00erent temperature-dependence, i.e., di/uniFB00erent action energies E a, i .

For this purpose, we focus on one specific morphology of the 3D model system for which the physical contact area is A WE | SE = 22% and  the  interface  has  the  realistic  disordered  morphology depicted in Figure 1c. The temperature-dependence of the ionic migration processes, i.e., of bulk and GB transport within the SE as well as of CT at the interface, are described by an Arrhenius  behavior,  for  example, σ ( T ) ∼ σ 0 / T ∙  exp[ -E a /  ( k B∙ T )]. The  values  assumed  for  the  activation  energies E a, i of  the microscopic transport processes are given in the Computational Details  section.  The  permittivity  values  are  considered  to  not

www.advmatinterfaces.de dependent on temperature. We computed series of impedance spectra  at  temperatures  between -40 ° C and 40 ° C and derived the macroscopic transport parameters ( Ri , Ci ) of the individual processes  at  each  temperature  by  fitting  the  resulting  spectra with the 1D equivalent circuit model. Variations of microscopic conductivities σ i with  temperature T are directly reflected in  the  macroscopic  resistance  values R i derived  by  the  fitting approach.  Thus,  the  individual  activation  energies E a, i can  be determined  from  the  slopes  of  corresponding  Arrhenius  diagrams ln[ T /( R ∙ A )] versus T -1 , using the macroscopic resistance parameters Ri .

Similar  to  the  former  discussion,  we  consider  again  the three  cases  of  di/uniFB00erent  orders  of  the  time  constants τ Cstr and τ CT . Here, we will not discuss the activation energies E a, i of the macroscopic  resistances Ri corresponding  to  the  microscopic electric migration processes, i.e., the CT at the interface, bulk, and GB transport. Their activation energies almost agree with those of the corresponding microscopic input parameters, i.e., that  of  the  polarization  resistance R Pol and  those  of  the  bulk and  GB  conductivities σ i .  Instead,  we  will  solely  analyze  the e/uniFB00ective  activation  energy  of  the  macroscopic  resistance  parameters R Cstr used  for  the  parameterization  of  the  constriction phenomenon  in  the  1D  equivalent  circuit  model  and R Int ,  in the case of τ Cstr ≈ τ CT , which is also strongly a/uniFB00ected by current constriction.

Figure 6 a  shows  Arrhenius  diagrams  of  the  constriction resistance R Cstr in  the  case  of τ Cstr &lt; τ CT .  Five  di/uniFB00erent  sets  of microscopic transport parameters ( σ i , ε i ) were considered in the computations.  Starting  with  a  reversible  WE | SE  interface  and highly conducting GBs ( Z CT = Z GB = 0,  blue  data  points),  the activation  energy E a,Cstr of  the  constriction  resistance R Cstr is 0.34 eV and identical to that of the microscopic bulk transport E a,Bulk .  This  agrees  with  the  observations  of  Fleig  and  Maier who exclusively considered a homogenous SE and no CT step at the interface in their early theoretical studies. [31-33] The activation energy E a,Cstr  increases slightly to 0.35 eV, when the GBs become resistive ( Z GB ≠ 0, Z CT = 0, red data points). The e/uniFB00ect is  only  marginal  for  the  sample  configuration  and  transport parameters considered, although the activation energy assigned to  microscopic GB transport with 0.43 eV is rather high compared to the bulk value of 0.34 eV. This is due to the fact that the electric transport properties of the entire system are dominated by bulk transport ( R Bulk ≈ 12∙ R GB). The e/uniFB00ect of the additional electric  GB  transport  on R Cstr   would  be  more  pronounced for decreasing  conductivity σ GB  or  a  more  prominent  GB  microstructure (i.e., an increased GB volume fraction and more GBs to be crossed along the dominant transport path). Interestingly, assuming a non-zero microscopic polarization resistance at the interface ( Z GB ≠ 0, Z CT ≠ 0, greenish data points) does not alter E a,Cstr despite  the  high  value  of E a,CT with  0.43  eV,  even  when R Pol is  varied  by  an  order  of  magnitude  ( R Pol → 10∙ R Pol ).  The reason is that in the case of τ Cstr &lt; τ CT , the transport processes across  the  interface,  i.e.,  across  both  the  pores  and  the  physical contact area, are predominantly dielectric in the frequency range close to 1/ τ Cstr .  In  consequence, R Cstr and E a,Cstr are  not a/uniFB00ected by the electric transport step across the physical contact A WE | SE  and thus by the polarization resistance. [30]

In  Figure  6b,  we  consider  the  case  of  comparable  relaxation  times τ Cstr ≈ τ CT  and  study  the  activation  energy E a,Int

www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.advmatinterfaces.de

Figure 6. The constriction resistance R Cstr   is  composed of contributions of all electric transport processes within the system. Its activation energy (numbers is dashed box) depends solely on the activation energy of the individual transport processes E a,i . Only electric charge transport processes in the frequency range around 1/ τ Cstr have an e/uniFB00ect on the constriction resistance R Cstr . Thus, a) the microscopic polarization resistance has no e/uniFB00ect if τ CT &gt; τ Cstr and b,c) it a/uniFB00ects E a,Cstr if τ CT ≤ τ Cstr . The legend indicates the relative changes of the microscopic transport parameters in the computed impedance series. Note that the red and green points in (a) overlap and are only shifted along the y -axis for clarity.

of  the  single  e/uniFB00ective  macroscopic  interface  resistance R Int . In  the  frequency  range  of  the  interface  impedance,  pores are  still  almost  dielectrically  conductive  while  the  transport across the physical contact takes place electrically. The transport situation resembles that for R Cstr in the case of τ CT &lt; τ Cstr , where the corresponding Arrhenius diagrams are displayed in Figure 6c. In both cases, the microscopic electric CT process at the interface is contributing to or even dominating the macroscopic  resistances R Int or R Cstr ,  respectively.  As  a  result  of the frequency-dependent changes of the active SE volume for frequencies  around  1/ τ Cstr ,  the  averaging  of  the  microscopic transport processes yielding R Int and E a,Int or R Cstr and E a,Cstr also changes.

The  trends  for  the  Arrhenius  diagrams  and  the  activation energies extracted are very similar, when looking at the five sets of  microscopic transport parameters. The findings in the case of a reversible WE | SE interface considering highly conducting GBs ( Z CT = Z GB = 0, blue data points) or resistive GBs ( Z GB ≠ 0, Z CT = 0, red data points) are similar to the results for τ Cstr &lt; τ CT shown in Figure 6a. The activation energy E a,Int or E a,Cstr  equals that of the bulk process with 0.34 eV or increases only slightly to 0.35 eV due to the specific constellation and choice of materials  parameters,  respectively.  Interestingly,  the  microscopic polarization resistance R Pol  now dominates the overall behavior of  the  macroscopic  constriction  resistance  ( Z GB ≠ 0, Z CT ≠ 0, greenish data points) for such an order of time constants. The activation  energy E a,Cstr approaches that  of  the  CT  e/uniFB00ect E a , CT with 0.43 eV, the more resistive the interface becomes, i.e., for increasing R Pol . The activation energies of the e/uniFB00ective interface resistance R Int  in Figure 6b tend to be slightly higher compared to  those  of  pure  constriction R Cstr in  Figure  6c.  The  reason  is that R Int includes  a  pure  contribution  of  the  macroscopic  CT resistance R CT  based  on  the  microscopic R Pol ,  which  typically has a higher activation energy than R Cstr   as originating from a microscopic migration process.

Altogether,  the  results  on  the  temperature-dependence  of R Cstr and R Int imply  that  the  activation  energies  determined from  Arrhenius  diagrams  reflect  a  weighting  over  all  microscopic migration processes within the system. This indicates a relationship according to R Cstr = Σ i α i ∙ 1/ σ i and a corresponding equation for R Int .  The  weights α i depend, for example, on the interface  morphology,  the  contact  area,  the  microstructure  of the  SE,  the  locations  of  GBs  within  the  system  and  the  order of  the  time  constants  of  the  individual  transport  processes. In particular, it  holds  that α i ≈ 0,  if τ Cstr &lt; τ i . [30] The  equation also  implies  that  there  is  a  range  of  values  for E a,Cstr or E a,Int with  boundaries  given  by  the  lowest  and  highest  activation energies E a, i with α i ≠ 0  of  electric  migration  processes,  i.e., min( E a, i ) ≤ E a,Cstr ≤ max( E a, i ).  This is due to the fact that E a,Cstr or E a,Int  are a weighted average over the microscopic activation energies E a, i present in the system.

## 3.2.2. E/uniFB00ect of SEI Formation Due to Chemical Instabilities at Morphologically Stable Interfaces

Next,  we  turn  to  the  right  branch  in  the  decision  tree  shown in  Figure  2  and  include  the  (electro)chemical  instability  of metal | SE  interfaces.  To  our  knowledge,  there  are  only  a  few solid electrolytes that form an electrochemically and kinetically stable interface with alkali metals. Examples are the interfaces between lithium metal and garnets. [51-54]  More common is the formation of an SEI (i.e., usually a multi-phase and nanoscale composite) at the interface, which usually exhibits less favorable charge transport properties, in particular a lower ionic conductivity  than  the  SE  itself.  Here,  the  SEI  is  often  continuously formed  at  the  interface  during  operation,  for  example,  when considering argyrodite-type SEs versus lithium metal. [10-14] The  dynamic  formation  process  corresponds  to  a  transition from a WE | SE interface into a WE | SEI | SE layered interface over

www.advancedsciencenews.com time - ignoring the many inner homo- and hetero-interfaces in the  SEI  itself.  In  the  following  we  will  therefore  consider  the SEI  as  a  homogeneous  phase  for  the  sake  of  simplicity  and as  there  is  not  enough  knowledge  on  the  composition  of  the SEI. At the end of this process, the SEI layer covers the entire interface  and  is  morphologically  stable.  In  consequence,  the impedance response of the interface is exclusively determined by the SEI. This situation corresponds to the first leaf node in the right branch in the decision tree in Figure 2. The increasing thickness δ Int of the SEI will lead to an increase of its resistance ( R SEI ∼ δ Int ) and a decrease of its capacitance ( C SEI ∼ 1/ δ Int ). The transport behavior across the interface is more complex, when the interface is only partially covered by the SEI layer. This may be due to the presence of pores at the interface or ideal metalSE  contact  areas.  In  such  cases,  the  e/uniFB00ect  on  the  impedance response of the system is not clear and needs to be studied in detail  on  the  basis  of  microstructural  information  of  the  corresponding samples.

Corresponding  experimental  interface morphologies  are, for  example,  described  in  a  recent  study  by  Otto  et  al.,  when bringing lithium foil with a passivation layer on its surface (e.g., Li 2 CO3,  LiOH  or  Li 2 O)  into  contact  with  a  garnet-type  SE. [57] The  surface  roughness  of  the  SE  leads  to  local  penetrations of  the  passivation  layer,  which  leads  to  a  distribution  of  energetically  preferred A WE | SE   contacts  and  less  preferred A WE | SEI | SE contacts at the interface. The interface structure described represents the third leaf node in the right branch of the decision tree  in  Figure  2.  Apparently,  the  interface  morphology  seems to  show many similarities to the porous interfaces considered in the previous section. Thus, we only substitute the pores by a resistive SEI (or passivation) at the interface within the theoretical 3D model system, i.e., we assume that the aging of the interface  is  exclusively  caused  by  an  SEI.  The  adapted  interface morphology consists of a single contact spot A WE | SE  in the middle  of  the  electrode  surrounded  by  an  SEI  layer A WE | SEI | SE (see inset in Figure 7 a).

Again, we perform a series of impedance computations mimicking that the microstructure of the SE is kept constant and a gradual degradation of the WE | SE occurs, this time due to the formation of an SEI layer. The capacitance  C SEI and resistance  R SEI of  the  SEI  are  set  to  100 Ω cm 2 and  88 µ F cm -2 ,  respectively.  Without  loss  of  generality,  the  microscopic  polarization resistance R Pol  at the two-phase boundary A WE | SE  is assumed to be negligible ( Z CT = 0), i.e., there is no macroscopic CT signal in the impedance spectra. It represents a limiting case, experimentally observed for the interface between lithium metal and LLZO. [37,58-59]  This assumption significantly simplifies the data analysis.  Otherwise,  the  impedance  response  will  depend  on the interplay of interface time constants τ CT and τ SEI in a similar way discussed in the previous section for the simultaneous presence of CT and pores at the interface.

Figure  7a  shows  the  modelled  impedance  data  for  five  different  contact  areas  in  the  range  between  100%  and  4.3%  in Nyquist  representation.  The  respective  interface  morphologies  are  displayed  on  the  right  with  the  two-phase  boundary contact as a gray square in the center of the interface area and the light blue three-phase layered contact surrounding it such, that A WE | SE + A WE | SEI | SE = 100%.  The  impedance  spectrum  for an  ideal  contact  without  SEI  ( A WE | SE = 100%)  consists  of  two

www.advmatinterfaces.de well-separated  semicircles  representing  bulk  (blue)  and  GB (red)  transport  within  the  SE.  An  additional  interface  semicircle (yellow) is formed in the spectra, when A WE | SE  decreases, i.e.,  an  SEI  forms.  At  first  glance,  the  qualitative  impedance behavior seems to be similar to the case of a porous interface discussed  in  the  previous  section.  Bulk  and  GB  impedance remain  unchanged,  while  the  interface  impedance  increases with decreasing A WE | SE   (cf.  Figure  3a).  To  study  the  frequencydependence  of  the  resulting  interface  signal,  we  performed  a DRT analysis of all impedance spectra as shown in Figure 7b. The relaxation times of the bulk and GB signals are again independent of the SEI fraction at  the  interface.  Interestingly,  the time  constant  of  the  interface  signal τ Int does  not  match  the time  constant  of  the  microscopic  electric  transport  process across the SEI layer τ SEI .  Instead,  it  exhibits  a  relaxation  time in  the  intermediate range between GB and SEI time constant ( τ GB &lt; τ Int &lt; τ SEI ).

To  study  the  functional  behavior  of  the  interface  time  constant τ Int   in  more  detail,  we  consider  the  dependence  of the  macroscopic transport parameters ( R Int , C Int ),  derived  by  the 1D fitting approach of the computed impedance spectra, on the contact area A WE | SE  (see Figure 7c,d). The macroscopic transport quantities  of  the  1D  fitting  model,  i.e.,  bulk  (green)  and  GB (orange)  resistances  as  well  as  the  SEI  resistance  and  capacitance  (cyan),  are  given  as  reference  values  in  the  figures.  As expected, the resistance R Int   increases and the capacitance C Int decreases with decreasing A WE | SE ,  but  the  quantitative changes do not fit those of an electric migration process. Both parameters converge towards the limiting case of a completely covered interface ( R Int → R SEI , C Int → C SEI for A WE | SE → 0),  instead  of being (inversely) proportional to changes of the contact area. The same holds for the variation of the time constant ( τ Int → τ SEI for A WE | SE → 0) as shown in Figure 7e. Consequently, the observed interface  impedance  signal  does  not  represent  the  pure  characteristics of the SEI or passivation as typically assumed in the literature.  Instead,  the  macroscopic  parameters  ( R Int , C Int )  are also a/uniFB00ected by the bulk and GB conductivity within the SE as well as the microscopic polarization resistance at the interface. These  parameters  influence  the  amounts  of  current  flowing across  the  two-phase  boundary  described  by A WE | SE   and  the layered  three-phase  contact  described  by A WE | SEI | SE   at  frequencies close to 1/ τ Int . The influence of the SEI properties on ( R Int , C Int ) increases as A WE | SE  decreases, since the fraction of current flowing through the SEI layer increases.

The  transport  situation  at  the  interface  will  change,  if  also pores are present at the interface in addition to a non-uniform SEI layer. When there is no direct contact between the metal and the SE (i.e., A WE | SE = 0%), the interface impedance behaves similarly  to  the  studies  performed  in  the  previous  chapter.  Herein, the SEI contact A WE | SEI | SE takes the role of the ideal A WE | SE areas. The morphology corresponds to that of the second leaf node in the right branch of the decision tree in Figure 2. Note that in this situation, the e/uniFB00ects of the microscopic transport parameters of the SEI layer (  R SEI ,  C SEI ) on the interface impedance are comparable to those of the CT reaction ( R Pol , C DL) in the former case. [30] Impedance data evaluation becomes even more complex when there are also ideal A WE | SE areas at the interface (see fourth leaf node in the right branch of the decision tree in Figure 2). In this case, there is not only an interplay between the transport across

www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.advmatinterfaces.de

Figure 7. Impact of the successive evolution of an SEI layer (cyan) at the interface on the impedance response of the system. a) An additional interface contribution is formed in the impedance spectrum as the contact area A WE | SE decreases. Note that for simplicity, the CT step at A WE | SE  was not considered in the modeling. b) The time constant of the interface signal does not match that of the microscopic transport through the SEI, if the interface is not fully covered. Evolution of the macroscopic transport parameters of the interface impedance, i.e., c) the resistance, d) the capacitance, and e) the time constant. Their qualitative behavior is similar to that of geometric constriction due to pore formation (cf. Figure 4). The macroscopic SEI (cyan), bulk (green), and GB (orange) parameters are given as reference values.

the A WE | SE and A WE | SEI | SE areas,  but  also  across  the A WE | Pore | SE contact.  Basically,  the  active  electrode  area  can  then  change with  frequency  between  three  levels:  (1)  the A WE | SE contact,  (2) the A WE | SE + A WE | SEI | SE contact, and (3) the entire electrode area. Therefore, three impedance contributions are generally expected in such a situation. Apparently, the exact form of the interaction and the evolution of the interface contribution depends on the morphology  of  the  interface,  the  individual  microscopic  transport quantities, and the order of the individual time constants.

In  summary,  the  impedance  signal  for  partially  covered interfaces A WE | SE &gt; 0%  at  di/uniFB00erent  relative  contact  areas  and temperatures behaves similarly to that in the presence of geometric  constriction  for  porous  interfaces  (cf.  Figure  4).  The main di/uniFB00erence  is  the  slightly  di/uniFB00erent  convergence  behavior for A WE | SE → 0, i.e., R Int → R SEI  and C Int → C SEI in the case of SEI  formation  instead  of R Cstr → ∞ and C Cstr →  C Pore in  the case of pores. Distinguishing between constriction due to SEI or pores gets more di/uniFB03cult, when the SEI resistivity increases. This  leads  to  a  similar  frequency-dependence  of  the  systems and especially a similar interface impedance behavior. It should be  noted  that  the  interface  impedance  reflects  the  pure  SEI characteristics only, when the interface is fully covered.

## 3.3. Strategies for the Identification of Interfacial Processes

The identification of the rate-limiting process at the interface is an essential starting point for improving the overall characteristics of a solid-state battery cell with a metal anode. Only in rare cases, a single process determines the electric properties of an allsolid metal | SE interface as shown in the decision tree in Figure 2. Typically, several e/uniFB00ects contribute to the impedance response of

www.advancedsciencenews.com the interface. Examples from the microscopic to the mesoscopic level are the CT step at the two-phase boundary A WE | SE , geometric constriction due to pores, or an SEI resulting in a layered threephase  contact A WE | Pore | SE or A WE | SEI | SE .  A  macroscopic  static  constriction  e/uniFB00ect  may  occur,  if  the  area  at  which  the  macroscopic WE is deposited on the SE surface is smaller than the latter, i.e., A WE &lt; A SE . [29] However,  this  can  be  easily  avoided  by  an  appropriate contact preparation, for example, via sputter deposition. In what follows, we assume that the stacks are prepared such that all macroscopic layers have the same lateral dimensions.

The  discussion  in  the  previous  sections  has  clearly  shown that  a  careful  analysis  of  the  impedance  data,  in  particular  as a function of pressure, in the time or frequency domain allows the identification of the rate-limiting process at the interface in many cases. This holds especially for static situations, in which no  SEI  is  dynamically  formed  or  transformed  during  operation.  It  refers  to  systems  with  chemically  stable  interfaces  and also to systems forming a kinetically stabilized interlayer (i.e., a uniform static secondary phase). Based on the derived criteria, we exemplarily define a strategy for experimentalists to follow in  order  to  identify  the  origin  of  the  interface  impedance  signals in recorded experimental spectra for symmetric Me | SE | Me arrangements, as described in Figure 1. In this situation, only CT and constriction e/uniFB00ects  determine  the  interface  properties. The  recipe  for  analyzing  corresponding  impedance  data  comprises several steps. The analysis is best performed in the timedomain according to the hierarchical scheme shown in Figure 8 .

- Step 1: Collection of impedance data at di/uniFB00erent stack pressures and performance of the corresponding DRT analyses.

Record an impedance spectrum of the pristine sample and perform a DRT analysis. The DRT will reveal either three or four main signals. The two signals at the shortest relaxation times τ usually correspond to transport processes within the www.advmatinterfaces.de

SE, i.e., in the bulk of grains and across GBs. The remaining signals originate from the interface.

- i) If constriction and CT processes di/uniFB00er su/uniFB03ciently in their characteristic time constants τ i , two interface signals arise in the DRT (left branch).
2. ii)  If  not,  the  signals  due  to  the  two  interface  processes overlap in the DRT (right branch).
- Step  2: Behavior  of  the  interface  DRT  signals  under  applied pressure .

Controlled  application  of  stack  pressure  results  in  a  continuous  tuning  of  a  porous  interface  morphology.  Pores will  gradually  close  with  increasing  pressure  until  an  ideal and  non-porous  interface  results  at  the  highest  pressures, i.e., A WE | SE → 100%.  This  leads  to  a  vanishing  geometric constriction contribution. The DRT signal due to geometric constriction  will  exhibit  a  continuous  change  of  the  time constant  (see  black  horizontal  arrow  in  Figure  8)  with  the applied  pressure  and  will  vanish  at  the  highest  pressure  at which the interface is ideal.

- i) In  the  case  of  two  (separate)  resolved  interface  signals, the  one  with  decreasing  amplitude  and  with  changes in  time  constant  as  a  function  of  pressure  results  from geometric current constriction. The time constant of the interface signal due to electric CT is independent of stack pressure, but its amplitude will also slightly change.
2. ii)  In the case of overlapping interface signals, the characteristic time constant of the single peak at the highest pressure  will  solely  correspond  to  the  CT  e/uniFB00ect.  If  no  DRT signal can be resolved at the highest pressure, it is likely that dynamic constriction determines the overall interface properties of the system.

Figure 8. Guideline for assigning individual impedance signals to microscopic processes and estimating their magnitude on the systems interface properties in the case of chemically stable interfaces. The qualitative behavior for di/uniFB00erent stack pressures strongly depends on the order of time constants τ i . In the limiting case of full physical contact A WE | SE = 100%, geometric current constriction signals vanish in the impedance spectrum.

www.advancedsciencenews.com

- Step 3: Determination of the macroscopic transport parameters of the CT e/uniFB00ect .

The remaining interface signal at the highest pressure is solely due to the CT effect. This means that the 1D equivalent  circuit  model  used  for  fitting  this  experimental impedance  spectrum  in  the  frequency  domain  can  be restricted  to  three RC -elements  representing  the  two microscopic  transport  processes  in  the  SE  and  that  of the  CT  process  at  the  interface.  The  macroscopic  transport  parameters  for  the  CT  effect  based  on  the  1D  fitting  approach are given by the microscopic polarization resistance R Int ( A WE | SE = 100%) = R CT( A WE | SE ) = R Pol and the double-layer capacitance C Int ( A WE | SE = 100%) = C CT( A WE | SE ) = C DL.

- Step 4: Determination of the macroscopic transport parameters .
- i) If  two  interface  contributions  are  observed,  the  series of  impedance  spectra  taken  at  di/uniFB00erent  pressures  can be fitted by a 1D equivalent circuit model consisting of four RC -elements,  i.e.,  ( R Bulk , C Bulk ),  ( R GB, C GB),  ( R CT , C CT),  and  ( R Cstr , C Cstr ).  This  holds  for A WE | SE &lt; 100%, i.e., apart from the highest pressures applied where the impedance response does not vary anymore. Only ( R Cstr , C Cstr )  and  ( R CT , C CT)  should  vary  as  a  function  of  pressure,  the  parameters  corresponding  to  the  SE  should be  independent  of  pressure  as  the  pores  are  typically dielectrically  shorted  in  this  frequency  range.  It  should be noted that the electrode area may change during the application  of  stack  pressure,  requiring  a  specific  normalization of the impedance spectra, as described in the literature. [37,49]
- ii)  If  only  one  interface  contribution  is  observed,  the series  of  impedance  spectra  taken  at  different  pressures  can  be  fitted  by  a  1D  equivalent  circuit  model

www.advmatinterfaces.de

consisting  of  three RC -elements,  i.e.,  ( R Bulk , C Bulk ), ( R GB, C GB),  and  ( R Int , C Int ).  Here,  only  ( R Int , C Int ) should vary as a function of pressure.

- Step 5: Order of the time constants of the interface processes .

The  dependence  of R CT  and C CT  on  pressure  correlates with  their  dependence  on  the  physical  contact  area A WE | SE as it increases with increasing pressure. Although A WE | SE  is not necessarily a linear function of pressure, the observed dependence  of R CT( p )  and C CT( p )  can  be  compared  to  the relations  for R CT( A WE | SE )  and C CT( A WE | SE )  given  in Table 1 . This  helps  to  identify  the  order  of  the  characteristic  time constants τ CT and τ Cstr , in the case that both signals do not overlap. The assignment should agree with the order of τ i derived from the DRT series in step 2, and thus serves as a validation.

- i) R CT increases with pressure and C CT  decreases with pressure, then τ CT &lt; τ Cstr .
2. ii) R CT decreases with pressure and C CT increases with pressure, then τ CT &gt; τ Cstr .

In  the  case  of  overlapping  interface  signals,  the  relations for R CT( A WE | SE )  and C CT( A WE | SE ),  together  with R Pol and C DL derived in step 3, help to estimate the magnitude of the CT e/uniFB00ect  for  di/uniFB00erent  pressures  or  contact  areas  and  thus  to identify the dominant interface e/uniFB00ect.

- Step 6: Correlation with structural properties .

The  dependence  of R CT( p )  and C CT( p )  can  be  translated, based  on  the  theoretical  dependence  of R CT( A WE | SE )  and C CT( A WE | SE )  given  in  Table  1,  into  a  functional  relationship A WE | SE ( p ). This can be correlated with the results of the structural analysis of the pore distribution (e.g., via FIB SEM) in

Table 1. Overview of the characteristics of transport signals compared to signals of geometric origin.

| τ Bulk < τ GB < τ Cstr < τ CT                        | τ Bulk < τ GB < τ Cstr < τ CT     | τ Bulk < τ GB < τ CT < τ Cstr                        | τ Bulk < τ GB < τ CT < τ Cstr     |
|------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|
| constriction                                         | charge transfer                   | constriction                                         | charge transfer                   |
| τ Cstr ( A WE | SE ) ≠ const.                        | τ CT ( A WE | SE ) = const.       | τ Cstr ( A WE | SE ) ≠ const.                        | τ CT ( A WE | SE ) = const.       |
| R Cstr ( A WE | SE ): non-linear                     | 1/ CT WE|SE R A ∼                 | R Cstr ( A WE | SE ): non-linear                     | CT WE|SE R A ∼                    |
| R Cstr ( A WE | SE → 100 %) → 0                      | R CT ( A WE | SE → 100 %) → R Pol | R Cstr ( A WE | SE → 100 %) → 0                      | R CT ( A WE | SE → 100 %) → R Pol |
|  ( 0 %) Cstr WE|SE SEI R A R → → ∞               | R CT ( A WE | SE → 0 %) →∞        |  ( 0 %) Cstr WE|SE R A R SEI → → ∞               | R CT ( A WE | SE → 0 %) → 0       |
| C Cstr ( A WE | SE ): non-linear                     | CT | C A WESE ∼                   | C Cstr ( A WE | SE ): non-linear                     | 1/ CT | C A WESE ∼                |
| C Cstr ( A WE | SE → 100 %) →∞                       | C CT ( A WE | SE → 100 %) → C DL  | ( 100%) , 0, Cstr WE|SE pol C A R R → → ∞        | C CT ( A WE | SE → 100 %) → C DL  |
|   ( 0 %) Cstr WE|SE Pore SEI C A C C → →      | C CT ( A WE | SE → 0 %) → 0       |   ( 0 %) Cstr WE|SE Pore SEI C A C C → →      | C CT ( A WE | SE → 0 %) →∞        |
| E a,Bulk < E a,Cstr ≤ E a,GB                         | E a,Bulk < E a,GB ≤ E a,CT        | E a,Bulk < E a,Cstr ≤ E a,CT                         | E a,Bulk < E a,GB ≤ E a,CT        |
| E a,Cstr ( A WE | SE ) ≠ const.                      | E a, i ( A WE | SE ) = const.     | E a,Cstr ( A WE | SE ) ≠ const.                      | E a, i ( A WE | SE ) = const.     |

Adv. Mater. Interfaces 2023 , 10 , 2202354

www.advancedsciencenews.com nominally equivalent samples treated at di/uniFB00erent pressures. Such  comparisons  serve  as  an  additional  validation  of  this data analysis approach.

- Step  7: Correlation  with  temperature-dependent  impedance measurements .

Temperature-dependent measurements allow to extract thermal  activation  energies  for  the  observed  macroscopic resistances Ri deduced  by  the  1D  equivalent  circuit  fitting approach with four or three RC -elements connected in series. Typically, the activation energy of the metal ion migration in the  bulk  electrolyte  is  less  than  that  of  ion  transport  across a  grain  boundary in the SE and this in turn is less than or equal  to  that  of  charge  transfer  at  the  metal | SE  interface ( E a,Bulk &lt; E a,GB ≤ E a,CT ).  This  consideration  is  based  on  the assumption that charge transfer Me = Me + + e ′ is the rate-limiting kinetic step in the system rather than ion migration in the  electrolyte  phase.  In  consequence,  the  activation  energy of the 1D fit parameter R Cstr , which represents an average of all  microscopic  electric  transport  processes  in  the  system, lies somewhere between that of the bulk and that of the CT process, i.e., min( E a, i ) ≤ E a,Cstr ≤ max( E a, i ). However, the value depends not only on the magnitude of the individual microscopic activation energies E a, i ( i = Bulk,  GB, CT), which are independent of geometry, but also on the global character of the constriction e/uniFB00ect, which defines the macroscopic sample volume contributing to the transport and thus the weights in the averaging of the microscopic activation energies.

www.advmatinterfaces.de

Table  1  summarizes  the  functional  behavior  of  the  macroscopic  transport  parameters  describing  CT  and  constriction e/uniFB00ect  when  fitting  with  1D  equivalent  circuit  models  in  the case  of  di/uniFB00erent  situations  characterized  by  the  order  of  the time constants τ CT and τ Cstr .  The clear dependences should be helpful in the interpretation of experimental impedance spectra. However, a word of caution is essential here. The dependences derived, of course, are to some extent a/uniFB00ected by the assumptions  about  the  3D  sample  morphology  (see  Figure  1).  Minor deviations are anticipated, for example, if not only the contact area A WE | SE   but  also  the  thickness δ Int of  the  electrically  insulating  layer  at  the  interface  is  varied.  In  particular,  this  has  a major  superimposed  e/uniFB00ect  on  the  macroscopic  constriction capacitance  as C Cstr ∼ ε Int / δ Int ,  in  contrast  to  the  constriction resistance as R Cstr = Σ i α i ∙ 1/ σ i + Σ j α j ∙ R Pol, j .

Establishing similar hierarchical schemes for analyzing the interface  impedance response in cases, in which an SEI layer is  dynamically  formed,  is  in  principle  also  possible.  However, this  will  require  additional  structural  information  and  probably  will  depend  significantly  on  the  materials  involved.  For example, in the cases in which a non-uniform secondary phase takes the place of pores at the interface, the assumption that the interface morphology approaches a state under pressure where A WE | SE = 100%  is  not  valid.  In  consequence,  the  constriction e/uniFB00ect will not disappear at high pressures, and thus the derived hierarchical  scheme  is  not  applicable.  Therefore,  it  is  essential to know how the two phases at the interface behave under pressure in order to establish a corresponding scheme for such cases.  The  situation  in  the  case  of  dynamic  SEI  formation  is

Figure 9. Experimental impedance data on the pressure-dependence of the interface impedance of a symmetric Li | LLZO | Li cell. The raw data originates from a recent study of Krauskopf et al. published in the literature. Adapted with permission. [37]  Copyright 2019, American Chemical Society. The dashed lines indicate an artificial o/uniFB00set along the y -axis for visualization. a) The interface impedance (yellow) decreases with uniaxial pressure and vanishes after applying an isostatic pressure of 400 MPa. b) Even in the DRT analysis, there is no evidence for an interface signal at 400 MPa. Note that the bulk DRT signal could not be observed, since its impedance behavior is not fully captured in the measured frequency range.

www.advancedsciencenews.com even  more  complex  as  the  SEI  changes  continuously  during operation. If its temporal evolution is known from a structural analysis, the corresponding variation of the impedance spectra during operation may be addressed and meaningful parameters may be extracted. For example, if a closed SEI layer at the interface is formed, its macroscopic transport parameters R SEI and C SEI will vary systematically with its thickness δ Int , according to R SEI ∼ δ Int  and C SEI ∼ 1/ δ Int . The analysis may be quite intricate, once the SEI itself is porous, which is a natural consequence of a negative reaction volume of SEI formation. [14,45]

## 3.4. Evaluating the E/uniFB00ect of Individual Interface Processes between Lithium and LLZO

Finally, we present an experimental case study to demonstrate the  applicability  of  the  hierarchical  scheme  discussed  in  the context of Figure 8. The data, which are analyzed here in more detail, are those of Krauskopf et al. They comprise an investigation of the e/uniFB00ect of stack pressure on the impedance response of  a  symmetric  Li | LLZO | Li  cell  arrangement. [37] Resistive  SEI formation can be ruled out for this material combination, since the garnet-type solid electrolyte LLZO is one of the few Li-ion conductors  that  is  kinetically  stable  against  lithium. [51-54] Furthermore, Krauskopf et al. performed a microstructural analysis of the interface region and identified pores for stack pressures smaller  than  400  MPa. [60-64] Both  pieces  of  information  demonstrate  that  the  experimental  results  fulfill  the  assumption underlying the hierarchical scheme previously presented.

Figure 9 a  shows  a  series  of  impedance  spectra  in  Nyquist representation  taken  at  various  external  pressures.  The  initial spectrum  at  10  MPa  uniaxial  stack  pressure  consists  of  three separated semicircles, i.e., two from bulk (blue, ≈ 1  MHz) and GB (red, ≈ 10 kHz) transport in the SE, and one from transport across the interface (yellow, &lt; 1 kHz). The continuous increase of  uniaxial  pressure  resulted  in  a  decrease  of  the  single  interface  signal,  i.e.,  an  initial  resistance R Int of  about  300 Ω cm 2 at 10 MPa decreased to 50 Ω cm 2   at 41 MPa. Furthermore, the semicircles  of  bulk  and  GB  transport  remained  unchanged, i.e.,  they  are  not  influenced  by  the  applied  pressure.  In  the frequency  domain,  it  seems  that  only  one  interface  contribution is present as only one impedance signal can be discerned. Interestingly,  no  interface  signal  could  be  resolved  anymore ( &lt; 0.1 Ω cm 2 )  after  further  increasing  the  external  load  to  an isostatic pressure of 400 MPa, i.e., only the unchanged bulk and GB semicircles were observed.

We  proceed  now  stepwise  according  to  our  hierarchical scheme:

As step 1, we perform a DRT analysis of the impedance data. The resulting  series  of  DRT  at  various  pressures  is  shown  in Figure  9b.  Frequency  points  below  200  Hz  were  excluded  in the  analysis,  since  individual  residuals  were  greater  than  4% in  the  Kramers-Kronig test. Similarly, frequency points above 0.2 MHz were neglected as most of the bulk contribution (blue) is  not  captured in the measured frequency range. As a result, parts of the GB impedance (red) were not reflected in the considered  frequency  range,  which  a/uniFB00ects  the  magnitude  of  the corresponding  DRT  signal.  Thus,  the  analysis  conducted  can

Adv. Mater. Interfaces 2023 , 10 , 2202354

www.advmatinterfaces.de only reveal qualitative trends in the data. Nevertheless, the DRT of the initial impedance at 10 MPa consists of four signals. The one  at  low  relaxation  times  represents  transport  across  GBs (red),  while  the  three  broad  signals  at  higher  relaxation  times result  from  the  WE | SE  interface  (yellow)  as  the  CE  was  prepared as ideal QRE. The occurrence of more than two interface signals in the experimental data is due to competing transport paths through the sample. [23]

As  step  2,  we  identify  the  interface  DRT  signals  whose characteristic  time  constant  depends  on  pressure  and  assign its  origin  to  the  constriction  e/uniFB00ect.  The  time  constant  of  the GB signal around 10 -5 s  is  independent  of  stack  pressure  as expected.  The  three  other  DRT  signals  from  interface  possesses  with  relaxation  times  between  10 -5 s  and  10 -2 s,  all strongly  depend  on  external  load.  Their  time  constants  shift and  their  amplitudes  decrease  and  vanish  with  increasing uniaxial pressure. No contribution from the interface can be observed after an isostatic pressure of 400 MPa was applied. This suggests that all three signals arise from the constriction e/uniFB00ect  and  the  CT  e/uniFB00ect  is  negligible  in  case  of  the  Li | LLZO interface.

Several  other  aspects  support  the  conclusion  that  current constriction rather than CT is the rate-determining step at the Li | LLZO interface. First, the estimate of the upper limit of the macroscopic CT resistance at small contact areas according to step  5,  which  yields  about  1 Ω cm 2 ,  several  orders  of  magnitude lower than the experimentally observed values for R Int . [59] Second, the structural analysis (corresponding to step 6 of the hierarchical scheme) reveals pores at the interface. This is even more supported by a theoretical study of Zhang et al. who suggest that the physical contact A WE | SE  roughly changes by a factor of five in the experiment of Krauskopf et al., from around 20% at  10  MPa  to  almost  100%  at  400  MPa. [39] Third,  temperaturedependent impedance measurements (corresponding to step 7 of  the  hierarchical scheme) yield a small activation energy for the  interface  signal E a,Int = 0.37  eV  comparable  to  that  of  the bulk process E a,Bulk = 0.34 eV.

All listed observations agree very well with the computations performed and also with fundamental studies on the constriction e/uniFB00ect  published  in  the  literature. [29-36]   Thus, we conclude that  the  CT  step  at  the  Li | LLZO interface is negligible as current  constriction  e/uniFB00ects  clearly  dominate  the  electric  Li | LLZO interface properties in the samples studied by Krauskopf et al. This result is consistent with several other experimental observations, such as the evolution and the increase of an interfacial (i.e.,  constriction)  impedance  contribution  due  to  pore  formation  during  anodic  dissolution. [50,63,65-68]   Moreover,  Ortmann et  al.  recently  reported  similar  experimental  findings  for  the interface  between  sodium  and  NASICON-type  solid  electrolyte Na 3.4 Zr2Si2.4 P0.6 O12. [49] Their detailed analysis of the origin of  the  interface  impedance  reveals  that  the  contribution  of  a naturally grown and kinetically stabilized interphase is negligible.  Instead,  pore  formation  leads  to  current  constriction,  which  dominates  the  rate  performance  at  the  interface. This further  emphasizes  the  important  role  of  geometric constriction  e/uniFB00ects  at  alkali  metal | SE  interfaces  on  the  way towards  the  successful  implementation  of  reversible  metal anodes in the market.

www.advancedsciencenews.com

## 4. Conclusions

Various processes, such as charge transfer, morphological and chemical  instabilities  due  to  pores  or  SEI  formation,  a/uniFB00ect the  interface  properties  of  metal  anodes  in  solid-state  battery cells. Identifying the dominant interface e/uniFB00ect(s) at metal | solid electrolyte interfaces is crucial, as the strategy for improving a solid-state battery depends on the rate-limiting process, which needs to be overcome. In this study, we use a 3D electric network model to investigate the interplay of these interface e/uniFB00ects with  the  structural  properties  of  a  symmetric  Me | SE | Me stack in  order  to  assess  their  impact  on  the  impedance  data  in  the frequency and time domain.

We perform  a  thorough  analysis  of  the  dependence  of  the impedance data on the physical contact area A WE | SE  and on temperature for di/uniFB00erent orders of the time constants of the underlying interface processes. Fitting the computed impedance data with 1D equivalent circuit models, in which di/uniFB00erent processes are represented by RC -elements, allows to translate the microscopic  and  mesoscopic  transport  properties  into  macroscopic transport  parameters  ( Ri , Ci ).  This  enables  the  development of  universal  recipes  in  the  form  of  hierarchical  schemes  for analyzing  experimental  impedance  data.  We  introduce  such  a scheme for systems with chemically stable interfaces, or with kinetically stabilized interlayer, for example, battery stacks with a porous WE | SE interface. The approach relies on the evolution of the impedance data when the porous interface morphology is continuously tuned under external pressure.

In  principle,  similar  schemes  can  be  developed  for  systems with other interface morphologies, e.g., interfaces with dynamic SEI  formation.  However,  the  impedance  studies  in  such  cases need  to  be  accompanied  by  thorough  structural  investigations of  the  evolution  of  the  interface  morphology  under  operation or  under  external  parameters  like  pressure.  This  is  a  necessity for  extracting  the  functional  relationship  between  the  macroscopic transport parameters of the 1D equivalent circuit models and  external  control  parameters  tuned  in  the  experiment.  The approach sketched spans the bridge between 3D electric network modelling  of  impedance  data  and  experimental  measurements and  corresponding  analysis.  It  is  widely  employable  and  will help to speed up the optimization of solid-state batteries in the future.

This is successfully demonstrated considering experimental impedance  data  of  a  Li | LLZO | Li  stack.  We  prove  unambiguously  that  the  Li | LLZO interface  properties  are  dominated  by geometric current constriction while the electric CT migration process plays only a negligible role. This also applies to recent experimental  results  on  sodium  in  contact  with  a  NASICONtype solid electrolyte. Consequently, charge-transfer driven morphological  instabilities  during  cycling  impedes  the  successful implementation  of  reversible  metal  anodes  in  the  market. Thus, methods need to be developed to suppress pore formation at the WE | SE interface.

## Acknowledgements

The  authors  greatly  appreciate  helpful  discussions  with  Till  Ortmann and Sascha Kremer. The authors thank Elisa Monte for the preparation of  the  graphical  abstract.  The  authors  acknowledge  computational

resources provided by the HPC Core Facility and the HRZ of the JustusLiebig-University Giessen. The authors would like to thank MSc. Philipp Risius and Dr. Marcel Giar of HPC-Hessen, funded by the State Ministry of Higher Education, Research, and the Arts (HMWK), for programming advice. Financial support is provided by the DFG via the GRK (Research Training  Group)  2204  'Substitute  Materials  for  sustainable  Energy Technologies'. J.J. and  S.B. acknowledge  financial support  by the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research within the cluster of  competence FESTBATT (projects 03XP0177A and 03XP0180). J.J. and T.F. acknowledge funding by the German Federal Ministry of Education and  Research  (BMBF)  of  the  LiSI  and  LiSI2  project,  grant  identifiers 03XP0224E and 03XP0509B. [Correction added on 22 August 2023, after first online publication: Projekt Deal funding statement has been added.] Open access funding enabled and organized by Projekt DEAL.

## Conflict of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## Data Availability Statement

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## Keywords

current  constriction,  interface  impedance,  lithium  metal  anodes,  pore and SEI formation, solid-state batteries

Received: November 13, 2022 Revised: December 18, 2022

Published online: February 5, 2023

- [1]  C. Niu,  H.  Lee,  S. Chen,  Q.  Li, J.  Du,  W.  Xu,  J.-G.  Zhang, M. S. Whittingham, J. Xiao, J. Liu, Nat. Energy 2019 , 4 , 551.
- [2]  H.  Wang,  D.  Yu,  C.  Kuang,  L.  Cheng,  W.  Li,  X.  Feng,  Z.  Zhang, X. Zhang, Y. Zhang, Chem 2019 , 5 , 313.
- [3]  M. T. McDowell, F. J. Q. Cortes, A. C. Thenuwara, J. A. Lewis, Chem. Mater. 2020 , 32 , 8755.
- [4]  Y . T akeda, O. Yamamoto, N. Imanishi, Electrochemistry 2016 , 84 , 210.
- [5]  J.  M.  Tarascon,  M.  Armand,  in Materials  for  Sustainable  Energy , Macmillan Publishers Ltd, London 2010 , pp. 171-179.
- [6]  K. Xu, Chem. Rev. 2004 , 104 , 4303.
- [7]  K. Nishikawa, T. Mori, T. Nishida, Y. Fukunaka, M. Rosso, T. Homma, J. Electrochem. Soc. 2010 , 157 , A1212.
- [8]  H. E. Park, C. H. Hong, W. Y. Yoon, J. Power Sources 2008 , 178 , 765.
- [9]  M.  Weiss,  F.  J.  Simon,  M.  R.  Busche,  T.  Nakamura,  D.  Schröder, F. H. Richter, J. Janek, Electrochem. Energy Rev. 2020 , 3 , 221.
- [10]  J.  Kasemchainan,  S.  Zekoll,  S.  D.  Jolly,  Z.  Ning,  G.  O.  Hartley, J. Marrow, P. G. Bruce, Nature Mater. 2019 , 18 , 1105.
- [11]  M.-C.  Bay,  M.  Wang,  R.  Grissa,  M.  V.  F.  Heinz,  J.  Sakamoto, C. Battaglia, Adv. Energy Mater. 2020 , 10 , 1902899.
- [12]  R.  Schlenker,  D.  Stępień,  P.  Koch,  T.  Hupfer,  S.  Indris,  B.  Roling, V.  Miß,  A.  Fuchs,  M.  Wilhelmi,  H.  Ehrenberg, ACS  Appl.  Mater. Interfaces 2020 , 12 , 20012.
- [13]  S.  D.  Jolly,  Z.  Ning,  G.  O.  Hartley,  B.  Liu,  D.  L.  R.  Melvin, P.  Adamson,  J.  Marrow,  P.  G.  Bruce, ACS  Appl.  Mater.  Interfaces 2021 , 13 , 22708.
- [14]  L.  M.  Riegger,  S.-K.  Otto,  M.  Sadowski,  S.  Jovanovic,  O.  Kötz, S. Harm, L. G. Balzat, S. Merz, S. Burkhardt, F. H. Richter, J. Sann,

www.advancedsciencenews.com

- R.-A.  Eichel,  B.  V.  Lotsch,  J.  Granwehr,  K.  Albe,  J.  Janek, Chem. Mater. 2022 , 34 , 3659.
- [15]  V. Lacivita, Y . Wang, S.-H. Bo, G. Ceder, J.  Mater. Chem. A 2019 , 7 , 8144.
- [16]  S. Wenzel, S. Randau,  T. Leichtweiß, D. A. Weber, J. Sann, W. G. Zeier, J. Janek, Chem. Mater. 2016 , 28 , 2400.
- [17]  J. Janek, S. Majoni, Ber. Bunsenges. Phys. Chem. 1995 , 99 , 14.
- [18]  S. Majoni, J. Janek, Ber. Bunsenges. Phys. Chem. 1998 , 102 , 756.
- [19]  H. Schmalzried, J. Janek, Ber. Bunsenges. Phys. Chem. 1998 , 102 , 127.
- [20]  N. M. Beekmans, L. Heyne, Electrochim. Acta 1976 , 21 , 303.
- [21]  T. van Dijk, A. J. Burggraaf, Phys. Status Solidi 1981 , 63 , 229.
- [22]  M.  J.  Verkerk,  B.  J.  Middelhuis,  A.  J.  Burggraaf, Solid  State  Ionics 1982 , 6 , 159.
- [23]  J. K. Eckhardt, S. Burkhardt, J. Zahnow, M. T. Elm, J. Janek, P. J. Klar, C. Heiliger, J. Electrochem. Soc. 2021 , 168 , 090516.
- [24]  T. R. Jow, C. C. Liang, J. Electrochem. Soc. 1983 , 130 , 737.
- [25]  A. Schröder, J. Fleig, D. Gryaznov, J. Maier, W. Sitte, J. Phys. Chem. B 2006 , 110 , 12274.
- [26]  T.  Krauskopf, B. Mogwitz, H. Hartmann, D. K. Singh, W. G. Zeier, J. Janek, Adv. Energy Mater. 2020 , 10 , 2000945.
- [27]  B. S. Vishnugopi, E. Kazyak, J. A. Lewis, J. Nanda, M. T. McDowell, N. P. Dasgupta, P. P. Mukherjee, ACS Energy Lett. 2021 , 6 , 3734.
- [28]  J. A. Lewis, F. J. Q. Cortes, Y. Liu, J. C. Miers, A.  Verma, B. S. Vishnugopi, J. Tippens, D. Prakash, T. S. Marchese, S. Y. Han, C. Lee, P. P. Shetty, H. W. Lee, P. Shevchenko, F. De Carlo, C. Saldana, P. P. Mukherjee, M. T. McDowell, Nat. Mater. 2021 , 20 , 503.
- [29]  J. K. Eckhardt, P. J. Klar, J. Janek, C. Heiliger, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2022 , 14 , 35545.
- [30]  J. K. Eckhardt, T. Fuchs, S. Burkhardt, P. J. Klar, J. Janek, C. Heiliger, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2022 , 14 , 42757.
- [31]  J. Fleig, J. Maier, Electrochim. Acta 1996 , 41 , 1003.
- [32]  J. Fleig, J. Maier, Solid State Ionics 1996 , 86-88 , 1351.
- [33]  J. Fleig, J. Maier, J. Electroceram. 1997 , 1 , 73.
- [34]  J. Fleig, J. Maier, Solid State Ionics 1997 , 94 , 199.
- [35]  J. Fleig, J. Maier, J. Electrochem. Soc. 1997 , 144 , L302.
- [36]  J. Fleig, J. Maier, J. Am. Ceram. Soc. 1999 , 82 , 3485.
- [37]  T. Krauskopf, H. Hartmann, W. G. Zeier, J. Janek, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2019 , 11 , 14463.
- [38]  W. E. Tenhae/uniFB00, E. Rangasamy, Y . Wang, A. P. Sokolov, J. Wolfenstine, J. Sakamoto, N. J. Dudney, ChemElectroChem 2014 , 1 , 375.
- [39]  X. Zhang, Q. J. Wang, K. L. Harrison, S. A. Roberts, S. J. Harris, Cell Rep. Phys. Sci. 2020 , 1 , 100012.
- [40]  D. Rettenwander, A. Welzl, L. Cheng, J. Fleig, M. Musso, E. Suard, M.  M.  Doe/uniFB00,  G.  J.  Redhammer,  G.  Amthauer, Lnorg.  Chem. 2015 , 54 , 10440.
- [41]  C.  Loho,  R.  Djenadic,  M.  Bruns,  O.  Clemens,  H.  Hahn, J.  Electrochem. Soc. 2016 , 164 , A6131.
- [42]  B. Boukamp, Solid State Ionics 2004 , 169 , 65.
- [43]  T. H. Wan, M. Saccoccio, C. Chen, F. Ciucci, Electrochim. Acta 2015 , 184 , 483.
- [44]  J. T . S. Irvine, D. C. Sinclair, A. R. West, Adv. Mater. 1990 , 2 , 132.
- [45]  S.-K. Otto,  L. M.  Riegger,  T. Fuchs,  S. Kayser, P.  Schweitzer, S.  Burkhardt,  A.  Henss,  J.  Janek, Adv.  Mater.  Interfaces 2022 , 9 , 2102387.

www.advmatinterfaces.de

- [46]  A.  Banerjee,  X.  Wang,  C.  Fang,  E.  A.  Wu,  Y .  S.  Meng, Chem.  Rev. 2020 , 120 , 6878.
- [47]  K.-Y .  Yang,  C.  Leu,  K.-Z.  Fung,  M.-H.  Hon,  M.-C.  Hsu,  Y .-J.  Hsiao, M.-C. Wang, J. Mater. Res. 2008 , 23 , 1813.
- [48]  X.  Shen,  Y .  Li,  T .  Qian,  J.  Liu,  J.  Zhou,  C.  Yan,  J.  B.  Goodenough, Nat. Commun. 2019 , 10 , 900.
- [49]  T. Ortmann, S. Burkhardt, J. K. Eckhardt, T. Fuchs, Z. Ding, J. Sann, M.  Rohnke,  Q.  Ma,  F.  Tietz,  D.  Fattakhova-Rohlfing,  C.  Kübel, O.  Guillon,  C.  Heiliger,  J.  Janek, Adv.  Energy  Mater. 2022 ,  https:// doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202202712.
- [50]  M.  J.  Wang,  E.  Carmona,  A.  Gupta,  P.  Albertus,  J.  Sakamoto, Nat. Commun. 2020 , 11 , 5201.
- [51]  R.  Murugan,  V.  Thangadurai,  W.  Weppner, Angew.  Chem.,  Int.  Ed. 2007 , 46 , 7778.
- [52]  Y .  Zhu,  J.  G.  Connell,  S.  Tepavcevic,  P.  Zapol,  R.  Garcia-Mendez, N. J. Taylor, J. Sakamoto, B. J. Ingram, L. A. Curtiss, J. W. Freeland, D. D. Fong, N. M. Markovic, Adv. Energy Mater. 2019 , 9 , 1803440.
- [53]  J. G. Connell, T. Fuchs, H. Hartmann, T. Krauskopf, Y. Zhu, J. Sann, G.-R.  Mendez,  J.  Sakamoto,  S.  Tepavcevic,  J.  Janek, Chem.  Mater. 2020 , 32 , 10207.
- [54]  Y . Zhu, X. He, Y.  Mo, ACS  Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2015 , 7 , 23685.
- [55]  T.  Fuchs,  C.  G.  Haslam,  A.  C.  Moy,  C.  Lerch,  T.  Krauskopf, J.  Sakamoto,  F.  H.  Richter,  J.  Janek, Adv.  Energy  Mater. 2022 , 2201125.
- [56]  D.  K.  Singh,  T.  Fuchs,  C.  Krempaszky,  B.  Mogwitz,  S.  Burkhardt, F. H. Richter, J. Janek, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2023 , 33 , 2211067.
- [57]  S.-K. Otto, T. Fuchs, Y. Moryson, C. Lerch, B. Mogwitz, J.  Sann,  J.  Janek,  A.  Henss, ACS  Appl.  Energy  Mater. 2021 , 4 , 12798.
- [58]  A. Sharafi, E. Kazyak, A. L. Davis, S. Yu, T. Thompson, D. J. Siegel, N. P. Dasgupta, J. Sakamoto, Chem. Mater. 2017 , 29 , 7961.
- [59]  J.  Gao,  X.  Guo,  Y .  Li,  Z.  Ma,  X.  Guo,  H.  Li,  Y .  Zhu,  W .  Zhou, Adv. Theory Simul. 2019 , 2 , 1900028.
- [60]  H.  Koshikawa,  S.  Matsuda,  K.  Kamiya,  M.  Miyayama,  Y.  Kubo, K. Uosaki, K. Hashimoto, S. Nakanishi, J. Power Sources 2018 , 376 , 147.
- [61]  F. Yonemoto, A. Nishimura, M. Motoyama, N. Tsuchimine, S. Kobayashi, Y. Iriyama, J. Power Sources 2017 , 343 , 207.
- [62]  A.  Badran,  T.  Clemenceau,  N.  Andriamady,  D.  Marshall,  R.  Raj, MRS Commun. 2021 , 11 , 283.
- [63]  T.  Krauskopf,  R.  Dippel,  H.  Hartmann,  K.  Peppler,  B.  Mogwitz, F. H. Richter, W. G. Zeier, J. Janek, Joule 2019 , 3 , 2030.
- [64]  C. Lee, S. Y. Han,  J. A. Lewis,  P. P. Shetty, D.  Yeh, Y. Liu, E.  Klein,  H.-W.  Lee,  M.  T.  McDowell, ACS  Energy  Lett. 2021 , 6 , 3261.
- [65]  K.  Lee,  E.  Kazyak,  M.  J.  Wang,  N.  P.  Dasgupta,  J.  Sakamoto, Joule 2022 , 6 , 2547.
- [66]  F. Flatscher, M. Philipp, S. Ganschow,  H. M. R. Wilkening, D. Rettenwander, J. Mater. Chem. A 2020 , 8 , 15782.
- [67]  T. Fuchs, J. Becker, C. G. Haslam, C. Lerch, J. Sakamoto, F. H. Richter, J. Janek, Adv. Energy Mater. 2022 , 13 , 2203174.
- [68]  T. Krauskopf, B. Mogwitz, C. Rosenbach, W. G. Zeier, J. Janek, Adv. Energy Mater. 2019 , 9 , 1902568.