pubs.acs.org/JACS

Article

## Bulk/Interfacial Structure Design of Li-Rich Mn-Based Cathodes for All-Solid-State Lithium Batteries

Wei-Jin Kong, Chen-Zi Zhao, * Liang Shen, Shuo Sun, Xue-Yan Huang, Pan Xu, Yang Lu, Wen-Ze Huang, Jin-Liang Li, Jia-Qi Huang, and Qiang Zhang *

Cite This: J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2024, 146, 28190-28200

## ACCESS

Metrics &amp; More

Article Recommendations

ABSTRACT: Li-rich Mn-based cathode materials (LRMO) are promising for enhancing energy density of all-solid-state batteries (ASSBs). Nonetheless, the development of efficient Li + /e -pathways is hindered by the poor electrical conductivity of LRMO cathodes and their incompatible interfaces with solid electrolytes (SEs). Herein, we propose a strategy of in -situ bulk/interfacial structure design to construct fast and stable Li + /e -pathways by introducing Li2WO4, which reduces the energy barrier for Li + migration and enhances the stability of the surface oxygen structure. The reversibility of oxygen redox was improved, and the voltage decay of the LRMO cathode was addressed significantly. As a result, the bulk structure of the LRMO cathodes and the high-voltage solid -solid interfacial stability are

Supporting Information

improved. Therefore, the ASSBs achieve a high areal capacity ( ∼ 3.15 mAh/cm 2 ) and outstanding cycle stability of ≥ 1200 cycles with 84.1% capacity retention at 1 C at 25 ° C. This study offers new insights into LRMO cathode design strategies for ASSBs, focusing on ultrastable high-voltage interfaces and high-loading composite electrodes.

## ■ INTRODUCTION

In the realm of modern technology, batteries play a pivotal role. Significant advancements have been made in the development of portable electronic devices, electric vehicles, and grid-scale energy storage applications. However, improving the energy density and ensuring safety in batteries continue to be critical challenges in current research. 1 -4 Traditional lithium-ion battery technology, which relies on conventional cathodes and organic electrolytes, faces formidable challenges as the demand for increased energy density increases. These challenges encompass issues related to long-term cycling life, wide-temperature performance, safety, and cost. 5 -7 In contrast, all-solid-state lithium batteries (ASSBs) have a much higher energy density than commercial liquid lithium-ion batteries, making them one of the most promising next-generation energy storage technologies due to their superior energy density and safety features. 8,9 Nonetheless, the effectiveness of traditional cathode materials in fulfilling the high energy density and safety requirements for ASSBs remains in question. Recently, Li-rich Mn-based layered oxide cathodes (LRMO) have emerged as promising candidates, primarily owing to their discharge capacity of ≥ 250 mAh/g, energy density of ≥ 1000 Wh/kg, and low Co and Ni contents. These attributes make an LRMO cathode as attractive option for addressing the energy density and safety requirements of ASSBs. 10 -13

The higher capacity of LRMO cathode materials is attributed to their unique two-phase solid solution structure, composed of LiTMO2 and Li2MnO3 phases, which determines the charge compensation originating from the cationic and

anionic redox chemistry. 14 -16 Notably, the redox activity of O 2 -, originating from the linear 'Li -O -Li' configuration in the superlattice, has been substantiated through first-principle and chemical experiments. 17 The O 2p orbitals in the 'Li -O -Li' configuration, largely unaffected by Li due to the significant energy gap between the Li 2s and O 2p orbitals, exhibit characteristics of nonbonding orbitals with reversible electron gain and loss ability. This indicates the crucial role played by the unique structure of the LRMO cathode in determining its electrochemical properties. 18,19

Despite these advantages, LRMO cathodes face significant obstacles due to the presence of two LiTMO2 and Li2MnO3 nanoscale phases in the LRMO material. The sluggish Li + transport kinetics limit the activation of Li2MnO3, primarily due to incompatibility at the LRMO cathodes/SEs interface. This issue makes it challenging to fully exploit the high energy potential in ASSBs. 20,21 Additionally, the inherently undesirable rate capacity and voltage decay of LRMO cathodes, which are caused by the irreversibility of anionic redox reactions of oxygen during the long-term cycling process, which greatly limit their practical applications in ASSBs. 22 Specifically, oxygen escape leads to the passivation of the LRMO

Received:

June 15, 2024

Revised:

September 13, 2024

Accepted:

September 17, 2024

Published:

October 2, 2024

https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.4c08115

J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2024, 146, 28190 - 28200

Figure 1. Crystal structure characterizations of cathode materials. (a) XRD patterns of the LRMO and 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes, representative highangle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) images for the (b) LRMO cathode nanoparticle and (c) 5W&amp;LRMO cathode nanoparticle (the Li2WO4 pattern are marked in the red circle). (d) rystal structure diagrams of the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode, (e) high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) image of the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode nanoparticle, (f) selected area electron diffraction of the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode, (g) comparison of the thickness of the S (MO2) and (h) the interlayer spacing of the refinement results. (i) XPS curves of O 1s and (j) the ratio of adsorbed oxygen and lattice oxygen in the LRMO and 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes.

cathodes/SEs solid -solid interface in ASSBs, thereby increasing the interfacial impedance and hindering Li-ion transport and charge transfer at the interface. 23 -25

To address these challenges, efforts have been made to efficiently activate and stabilize anionic redox reactions. This involves the construction of electron and Li + transport networks by introducing an appropriate amount of carbon additives, and the reduction of Li + transfer barriers by reconstructing the LRMO cathode/SEs interface using an atomic layer deposition (ALD)-based infusion-plus-coating strategy. 26 Additionally, to enhance the electrochemical stability of the LRMO cathode in ASSBs, a dual-function modification strategy is implemented. This strategy involves Ru doping, which stabilizes the lattice oxygen and promotes the activation of the Li 2MnO3 phase. Simultaneously, a surface sulfidation strategy was applied to establish a more robust interface. This dual approach is aimed at improving the swift ionic transport at the LRMO/LPSCl interface, ultimately boosting the electrochemical stability of the LRMO cathode in

ASSBs. 27 Moreover, we initially incorporated sulfite ions on the surface of the LRMO cathodes to simultaneously enhance the stability of the interfacial oxygen structure and accelerate the interfacial reaction kinetics, thereby suppressing oxygen escape and improving the solid -solid interfacial stability. 23 Theoretically, in situ construction of a stable and fast Li + /e -pathway at the cathodes/SEs interface by regulating bulk/ interfacial structures can facilitate oxygen redox activity and enhance the reversibility of the surface oxygen redox in cathode composites for ASSBs at room temperature, thereby stabilizing the high-voltage interface. 28,29 There are computation results indicating that Li2WO4 is the most suitable candidate material due to Li2WO4 being stable in high oxidation states and its the chemical structure allows it to maintain a stable electrochemical window, improving the ionic conductivity within the LRMO cathode, and contributing to stabilizing the cathode/SEs interface. 30 Therefore, designing and optimizing bulk and interfacial structures are promising

strategies to significantly enhance the electrochemical performance of LRMO cathodes in ASSBs.

In this contribution, Li2WO4 with a cubic tunnel structure was incorporated into LRMO cathodes through a one-step synthesis to modify the bulk/interfacial structure for application in advanced ASSBs. The introduction of Li2WO4 i n t o t h e L R M O c a t h o d e s ( 5 % Li2WO4&amp;Li1.2Mn0.54Co0.13Ni0.13O2, abbreviated as 5W&amp;LRMO) resulted in the achievement of a bulk-embedded structure, thereby improving the Li + /e -transport kinetics within the LRMO cathode bulk structure. The W substitution in the bulk enhanced the crystal structure stability of the LRMO cathodes, heightened both cation and anion redox activities, and considerably inhibited the migration of the transition metals. Moreover, the Li2WO4 surface coating improved the involvement of oxygen redox in charge compensation, thus enhancing the reversibility of surface oxygen redox in LRMO cathodes, stabilizing the high-voltage interface, and ultimately yielding a high area capacity ( ∼ 3.15 mAh/cm 2 ) and long cycle stability in ASSBs ( ≥ 1200 cycles with 84.1% capacity retention at 1 C at 25 ° C). This finding offers new insights into the design of bulk and interfacial structures for the development of LRMO cathodes in ASSB applications.

## ■ RESULTS AND DISCUSSION

Crystal Characterization of LRMO Cathode. The 5W&amp;LRMO cathode was obtained by introducing Li2WO4 into the bulk and surface structures of LRMO cathodes during the sintering process. The X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns of the LRMO and 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes in Figure 1a show that all the peaks can be attributed to the layered α -NaFeO2 structure of the R 3 m space group with weak superlattice reflection peaks of the Li2MnO3 phase in the C2/m space group appearing in the 20 °-25 ° range. 31,32 In Figure S1, the (003) peak of the 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes shifts toward a lower angle, indicating the expansion of the c -axis caused by additional ions entering the lattice. This shift reflects W doping into the bulk structure without compromising the overall structure of the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode, illustrating a complete layered crystal structure was maintained. 33 -35 Figures S2 and S3 show the Rietveld refinements of the XRD patterns of LRMO and 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes. The occupancy information on the atoms and lattice parameters in the R 3 m space group are further detailed in Tables S1 and S2, demonstrating the changes in parameters after W-doping.

The atomic-scale structure of the 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes was examined to confirm the presence of Li2WO4 through highangle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM), as depicted in Figures 1b,c and S4. The Li2WO4 coating layer on the LRMO cathode surface was approximately 4 -5 nm in thickness. The layered structures were well maintained in both the LRMO and 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes. Bright spots observed in the STEM image denoting W atoms due to their high atomic number are orderly arranged, affirming the embedded nature of Li2WO4 within the bulk structure of the LRMO cathode, as shown in Figure 1c. Advanced analysis employing HAADF-STEM EDS mapping was conducted on 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes for the first time, enabling a distinct identification of various atomic positions and confirming the presence of Li2WO4 within the cathode structure, as depicted in Figure S5. This technique also confirmed the layered structure of Li2WO4 and its successful integration via bulk structure embedding and surface coating during the synthesis. Notably, the crystal structures of Li2MnO3, LiTMO2, and Li2WO4 with cubic tunnel structure with the O -O bond lengths in Li layer is 3.0153, 3.0589, and 3.1333 Å, respectively, as shown in Figure S6. This suggested the possibility of theoretical fusion of crystal structures. The crystal structures of the 5W&amp;LRMO and LRMO cathodes are visually presented in Figure 1d and Figure S7, respectively. To ascertain the Li2WO4 coating layer on the surface of the 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes, transmission electron microscopy (TEM) was performed (Figure S8), which revealed a uniform ∼ 5 nm nanosized Li2WO4 coating layer. The outermost lattice fringes displayed a spacing of approximately 0.416 nm, corresponding to the (112) plane of Li2WO4 materials, and 0.451 nm corresponding to the (003) crystal plane of LRMO materials. The HAADF-STEM and selected-area electron diffraction (SAED) patterns consolidated the presence of the Li2WO4 coating layer, as demonstrated in Figure 1e,f. Consistent results from Raman spectroscopy, depicted in Figure S9, further validated the structural stability achieved through bulk structure embedding and surface coating with Li 2 WO4. This stabilization facilitated continuous Li + pathways at the LRMO cathodes/SEs interface, indicating promising potential for application in high-performance, high-loading mass ASSBs. Moreover, the two-dimensional Li + channels naturally facilitated by Li2WO4 promoted enhanced Li + migration and diffusion kinetics in the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode while providing protection to the high-voltage interface, avoiding LRMO cathode and SEs direct contact, and ensuring stable and rapid interfacial Li + transport kinetics.

To demonstrate W doping into the bulk structure of the 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes, depth analysis X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was performed (Figure S10). The results indicated the presence of W even when etching reached a depth of about 50 nm, confirming the existence of W in the bulk structure phase. Furthermore, compared with the LRMO cathodes (2.5398 Å), determined by the Rietveld refinement of the XRD patterns, the thickness of S(MO2) for the 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes decreased to 2.5041 Å after introducing the Li2WO4 during the synthesis process, as shown in Figure 1g, indicating enhanced stability of the layered structure. 36 The interlayer spacing of Li (LiO2) is one of the most important factors affecting Li + migration. As shown in Figure 1h, the expansion of Li (LiO2) (from 2.1986 to 2.2476 Å) in 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes creates a wider channel for Li + intercalation/extraction during the charge/discharge processes, thus lowering the energy barrier and improving the Li-ion diffusion kinetics, 37 thereby resulting in better rate capacity of the ASSBs based on the 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes. The fitting factors R wp for the refined data are 3.43% and 4.60%, as shown in Table S2, indicating the acceptability of the refined data for further reference.

The XPS analysis in Figure 1i reveals a higher binding energy shift of the O 1s peak in the 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes compared to the LRMO cathodes, and an increased ratio of lattice oxygen from 29.1% to 33.9% in the 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes, as shown in Figure 1j, indicating enhanced binding energy between the transition metals and oxygen. 38 This confirms the incorporation of W-doping into the bulk structure, as evidenced by the changes in the crystal cell parameters and the ratio of the lattice oxygen. Additionally, the ratio of Mn 3+ /Mn 4+ on the surface of cathodes was further analyzed, as shown in Figure S11, which indicates a lower content of Mn 3+ in the 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes (47.7%) relative

Figure 2. Interfacial Li + kinetics evolution in the cathode composites during the first charging process. (a) Initial charge voltage curves of the LRMO cathode materials, (b) interfacial impedance evolution of the LRMO cathodes, EIS spectra collected during the initial charging process, (c) corresponding DRT profiles transformation of GEIS, (d) initial charge voltage curves of the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode materials, (e) interfacial impedance evolution of the LRMO cathodes, EIS spectra collected during the initial charging process, (f) corresponding DRT profiles transformation of GEIS.

to the LRMO cathodes (52.3%), suggesting a reduction in the Jahn -Teller effect and further stabilization of the interfacial structure of the 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes. 39 Following the investigation into the electron and local structure of Mn involves X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) measurements of the Mn K -edge. From Figure S12, it is evident that the prepeaks of the Mn K -edge shift to the left in the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode, indicating W-doping into the bulk structure and a decrease in the valence state of Mn ions to maintain charge balance. Moreover, the particle morphology of the 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes was characterized by scanning electron microscopy (SEM), as shown in Figure S13. These results confirmed that the particle size of the cathode materials ranged from approximately 500 nm to 1 μ m. To visualize the distribution of each element in the 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes samples, EDS mapping spectra were obtained (Figure S14 -S15). The analysis discloses a homogeneous dispersion of Mn, Co, Ni, and O across the LRMO cathodes, paralleled by a consistent distribution of the W element within the 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes.

impedance predominantly occur in the mid/lowfrequency region, with the impedance of LRMO/SEs increasing from 50 to 500 Ω upon charging the open-circuit voltage (OCV) to 4.6 V versus Li/Li + . The significantly increased impedance is attributed to the irreversible oxygen redox at high voltage, which induces the release of oxygen and subsequent oxidation of the LRMO/SEs interface, thus impeding Li-ion transport and resulting in substantial alterations to interfacial impedance. Conversely, the impedance value of the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode composites shows a small change in the mid/low frequency region, increasing only from 50 Ω to 300 Ω , which is smaller than that of the LRMO cathode composites. This observation suggests that the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode composites exhibit stable and rapid Li-ion transport kinetics, especially at a high voltage of 4.6 V, thus supporting faster Li-ion transport and diminished interfacial impedance changes.

In order to directly investigate the charge transfer and Li + diffusion resistances at the LRMO/SEs interface, in situ GEIS cooperating with DRT analysis was carried out, as shown in Figure 2c,f. In contrast to conventional circuit fitting methods, the DRT method offers the advantage of directly conducting impedance spectrum analysis, discerning dynamic characteristics based on time constants, and preventing subjective analysis errors caused by manual circuit fitting. Moreover, directly obtaining individual electrochemical processes from the Nyquist plots of ASSBs is challenging due to the close time constants of the electrochemical process. However, DRT based on impedance measurements, efficiently segregates each electrochemical process in ASSBs. The impedance value can be obtained by calculating the area of the characteristic peak. Figure 2c,f illustrates the conversion of EIS spectra into DRT functions. Specifically, the peaks positioned at τ from 10 -3 to 10 -1 s (Rct) and 10 -1 to 10 s (Rd) are ascribed to the charge

Interfacial Li + Transfer Kinetics. The evolution of the interfacial impedance during the first charging process in ASSBs assembled with LRMO and 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes, paired with halide Li 3InCl6 (LIC) SEs and the LiIn/In anode, is exhibited in Figures 2 and S16. The significant changes in the electrochemical behavior are derived from the evolution of the Li + transport kinetics at the LRMO/SEs interface in ASSBs, which can be further elucidated through in situ GEIS testing combined with the distribution of relaxation time (DRT) analysis. 40 It is notable that the changes in LRMO/SEs interfacial impedance were mainly analyzed, as the Li/SEs interfacial impedance can be disregarded in ASSBs. 41 As observed in Figure 2b, the changes in LRMO/SEs interfacial

Figure 3. Oxygen redox and delithiation behaviors of the cathode composites. The XPS curves of O1s in the LRMO and 5W&amp;LRMO electrode at initial charging state of 4.6 V after Ar + etch to: (a) and (e) 0 s, (b) and (f) 30 s, (c) and (g) 60 s. (d,h) The ratio of O 2 -and O -/O2 2 -in the lattice oxygen of LRMO and 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes. (i) The top view and (j) the depth view on Li intensity distribution of LRMO (the blue rectangular box exhibits a phenomenon of deep delithiation in LRMO cathode composites). (k) The top and (l) the depth view of Li intensity distribution of the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode composites after charging to 4.6 V at 0.05 C by time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectroscopy (TOF-SIMS).

transfer and Li + diffusion resistances at the LRMO/SEs interface, respectively (Figure 2c). Notably, R ct and Rd at the LRMO/SEs interface exhibit a sharp increase beyond 4.4 V, whereas those at the 5W&amp;LRMO/SEs interface display a gradual rise even when charged to a high voltage of 4.6 V, as depicted in Figure 2f, indicating suppressed impedance change due to interfacial stability at the high voltage of 5W&amp;LRMO/ SEs interface. This validates the stability of rapid Li + transfer kinetics in 5W&amp;LRMO cathode composites. Furthermore, the LRMO cathode composites demonstrated larger interfacial charge transfer and diffusion impedance, whereas the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode composites maintained excellent interfacial Li + transfer stability during the discharging process (Figure S17). This established a material foundation for realizing high-performance, high-loading-mass ASSBs based on LRMO cathode materials.

Interfacial Structural Evolution and Chemical Mechanisms. The LRMO cathodes can deliver a high specific capacity, originating from the additional contribution of anionic redox. However, the formation of O -/O2 2 -species and even O2 gas during deep delithiation state causes structural instability, leading to sluggish kinetics, especially at the LRMO cathodes/SEs interface. Conventionally, oxygen redox reversibility is considered detrimental to the stability and Li + diffusion kinetics of the LRMO cathodes. To investigate the stability of the surface and bulk oxygen redox reactions in LRMO and 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes, the XPS spectra of the cathode composites etched for 0, 30, and 60 s were tested at the charging state of 4.6 V, as shown in Figures 3a -c and 3e -g. The concentration of the O -/O2 2 -species gradually decreased from the surface to the bulk phase as the etching time increased. We observed that the O -/O2 2 -species maintain a higher ratio of 34.8% in the 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes compared with the LRMO cathodes (15.8%). This suggests that oxygen redox was stabilized on the surface of the 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes due to the introduction of Li2WO4 during the synthesis process, which further suppressed the oxygen escape. Additionally, the bulk O -/O2 2 -species of 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes increased from 21.3% to 27.4%, as shown in Figure 3d,h, indicating an improvement in the oxygen redox activity in the bulk structure of the 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes, which is conducive to achieving the reversible capacity of the ASSBs. Therefore, the reversibility of the oxygen redox can be improved and the surface O -/O2 2 -species can be stabilized by introducing Li2WO4 component synchronously. As a result, the oxidative passivation of the halide electrolytes is suppressed. Li-ion transport kinetics are stabilized at the highvoltage 5 W and LRMO cathodes/SEs interface, thereby enhancing the capacity retention of the ASSBs based on the 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes.

The distribution of lithium within the cathode composites is significantly influenced by the lithium content. Time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectroscopy (TOF-SIMS) was employed to investigate the distributions of Li, Mn, and In on the surface and cross-sections of the cathode composites after being charged to a high-voltage state of 4.6 V, as depicted in Figures 3i -l, S18, and S19. The distribution of the LRMO and 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes in the cathode composites can be distinguished based on the Mn content, as shown in Figure S18. The distribution of lithium in the LRMO cathode composites at the top and cross-sections is shown in Figure 3i, j. The utilization ratio of active materials in the LRMO cathode

Figure 4. Electrochemical characterizations of ASSBs. (a) Comparison of the Cyclic Voltammetry (CV) curves of LRMO and 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes with a scan rate of 0.1 mV/s from 2.2 to 4.6 V, (b) charge/discharge capacity at different current densities for ASSBs with LRMO and 5W&amp;LRMO cathode materials, (c) cycling performance comparison of LRMO and 5W&amp;LRMO cathode materials ASSBs with high loading at 0.2 C, (d) first cycle voltage curves of LRMO and 5W&amp;LRMO cathode materials with high loading at 0.05 C, (e) reversibility area capacity with &gt;3.1 mAh/cm 2 , (f) corresponding charge/discharge voltage curves, (g) cycling performance comparison of LRMO and 5W&amp;LRMO cathode materials ASSBs at 0.5 C, (h) cycling performance comparison of LRMO and 5W&amp;LRMO cathode materials ASSBs at 1 C.

composites is lower due to the absence of continuous, stable, and rapid Li + channels, leading to uneven lithium content in the cross-section area of the LRMO cathode composites after deep delithiation. 42 However, within a blue rectangular box, a few locations with Li + pathways exhibit a phenomenon where excessive Li + deintercalation from LRMO cathodes results in the overoxidation of oxygen, subsequent oxygen escape, structural collapse, and disruption of the LRMO cathodes/ SEs interface contacts, significantly impeding Li + transport. Consequently, ASSBs based on LRMO cathode composites demonstrate inferior electrochemical performance. On the contrary, the Li content is evenly distributed on the crosssection in the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode composites after charging to 4.6 V, attributed to the establishment of continuous, rapid, and stable Li + channels and the optimization of the surface and interface structure of LRMO cathodes by introducing Li2WO4 into the bulk/interfacial structures. Therefore, there was no excessive Li + deintercalation from the 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes or oxidation decomposition of SEs caused by oxygen escape. This results in the intimate contact between 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes/ SEs and stabilized Li-ion transport kinetics during long-term cycling, which facilitates the excellent electrochemical performance of ASSBs based on the 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes.

The galvanostatic intermittent titration technique (GITT) was employed to investigate the Li + diffusion coefficient ( D Li+) values of the LRMO and 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes at the first and 100th cycles, respectively (Figure S20). Additionally, the typical titration of the LRMO and 5W&amp;LRMO cathode composites can be seen in Figure S21. During the transition metal redox stage of the charging process, the Li + diffusion coefficient ( D Li+) values for both cathode composites were nearly identical. However, a significant decrease in the Li + diffusion coefficient ( DLi +) values at voltages exceeding 4.47 V was observed in the LRMO cathodes during the initial charging stage, suggesting sluggish kinetics caused by structural rearrangement in the activation process of the Li2MnO3 phase. 43 This indicates a relatively slower interfacial Li + diffusion coefficient in the LRMO cathodes compared with the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode, owing to the irreversibile phase transition induced by oxygen escape. Subsequently, the Li + diffusion coefficient of the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode was significantly improved, particularly at high voltage, due to the

acceleration of Li + migration facilitated by the presence of Li 2 WO4 with a cubic tunnel structure. 44 This process involves both kinetic and thermodynamic processes, further hindering the Li + diffusion kinetics. In contrast to LRMO cathodes, the diffusion coefficient of the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode changed more smoothly, reflecting a suppression of transition metal migration and an improvement of oxygen redox reversibility. Furthermore, the ASSBs based on the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode exhibit a stable Li + diffusion coefficient after 50 and 100 cycles at 0.2 C, as shown in Figures S22 and S20e,f. This stability can be attributed to the presence of Li2WO4, which accelerates Li + diffusion and stabilizes the layered structure during long cycles. As expected, these results are consistent with the expansion of Li (LiO2) . Moreover, the suppression of interfacial degradation and the achievement of fast interfacial diffusion kinetics in the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode composites are attributed to the stability of the surface oxygen redox, protecting the 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes/SEs interface from oxidation, which in turn ensures rapid Li-ion transport.

Outstanding Electrochemical Performances of 5W&amp;LRMO-Based ASSBs. The electrochemical properties of the LRMO cathode and the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode materials were examined in ASSBs with a voltage range of 2.0 V -4.6 V. Initially, an LRMO-based ASSB with LIC SEs was constructed, as shown in Figure S16. To elucidate the mechanisms responsible for the enhanced electrochemical performance of 5W&amp;LRMO over the LRMO cathode, cyclic voltammetry (CV) analysis was meticulously conducted, as shown in Figure 4a. The oxidation peaks in the CV curves below ∼ 4.4 V are attributed to the oxidation of transition metal (TM) ions, such as Co 3+/4+ and Ni 2+/3+/4+ . 45 Concurrently, this process is complemented by the reinsertion of a fraction of Li + into the octahedral sites within the Li 1 -xTMO2 lattice during the subsequent discharge process. The 5W&amp;LRMO cathode materials exhibited a significant reduction in polarization, with a decrease from 0.42 to 0.34 V throughout the electrochemical process, outperforming the LRMO cathode materials. This decrease illustrates the enhancement of cationic redox reversibility due to the regulation of bulk/interfacial structures. Moreover, the voltage plateau around 4.45 V is attributed to the removal of Li2O from the Li2MnO3 phase, which corresponds to the oxygen redox. 46 The oxygen redox activity of the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode materials was significantly improved, leading to a higher specific capacity. In addition, the initial charge/discharge curves comparison showed that the Coulombic efficiency of the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode materials was increased from 64.26% to 74.83% at 0.05 C (1 C = 200 mA/g) as shown in Figure S23, which can be ascribed to the improvement of the oxygen redox reversibility. Subsequently, Figures 4b and S24 illustrate the rate performances of the LRMO and the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode materials at different current densities within the range of 2.2 -4.6 V. The 5W&amp;LRMO cathode material demonstrates excellent rate performance, delivering capacities of 218.6 mAh/g, 201.5 mAh/g, 162.4 mAh/g, 130.2 mAh/g, and 210.2 mAh/g at 0.1 C, 0.2 C, 0.5 C, 1.0 C, and 0.1 C, respectively. In contrast, the LRMO cathode material exhibited a lower rate capacity with corresponding discharge capacities of 180.1 mAh/g, 158.9 mAh/g, 130.4 mAh/g, 99.6 mAh/g, and 180 mAh/g at 0.1 C, 0.2 C, 0.5 C, 1.0 C, and 0.1 C, respectively. The remarkably improved rate performance of the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode material can be attributed to the expansion of LI(Lio2) and the elimination of oxygen-involving interface degradation. The long-term cycling behaviors of the LRMO cathode and the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode materials at 0.2 C are shown in Figure S25. The 5W&amp;LRMO cathode exhibits the superior capacity retention, maintaining 92.3% capacity over 100 cycles at 0.2 C, whereas the LRMO-based ASSB experiences oxygen escape, leading to lower discharge specific capacity and retention. Furthermore, it is noted that the 5W&amp;LRMO -based ASSBs exhibit excellent electrochemical performance at the cathode loading of 7.64 mg/cm 2 . However, a higher loading is more desirable to achieve an equivalent area capacity for industrialgrade loading of ∼ 3 mAh/cm 2 . 47,48 Based on Figure 4c,f, the ASSBs containing the LRMO cathode and the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode, with high areal capacity ( ∼ 3.15 mAh/cm 2 at 0.05 C; 15.28 mg/cm 2 ), were cycled at room temperature. Importantly, the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode delivers high initial Coulombic efficiency and remarkable long-term cycling stability of 88.1% over 100 cycles at 0.2 C ( ∼ 2.5 mAh/cm 2 ), as shown in Figure 4c, indicating a fast/continuous Li-ion pathway and stable high-voltage interface within the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode composites compared to the LRMO cathode composites. Additionally, voltage decay, a key issue limiting the industrial application of LRMO cathodes, 49,50 is significantly suppressed in ASSBs based on 5W&amp;LRMO cathode composites, as shown in Figure S26, with a voltage decay of 0.58 mV/cycle, signifying the stable bulk/interfacial structure of the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode.

The electrochemical performance of the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode materials is particularly noteworthy at higher current densities of 0.5 and 1.0 C, as shown in Figure 4g, h. Compared with the LRMO cathodes, the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode materials demonstrate a substantial increase in capacity retention, which increased from 61.2% to 77.2% after 500 cycles at 0.5 C. The comparison of charging/discharging curves for the LRMO and 5W&amp;LRMO cathode materials at the first, 100 th , 200 th , 300 th , 400 th , and 500 th cycles are shown in Figure S27. Impressively, the initial discharge capacity of 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes is ∼ 130 mAh/g, and it maintained an 84.1% capacity retention after 1200 cycles at 1 C. The charging/discharging curves are exhibited in Figure S28 and highlight the exceptional highvoltage interfacial stability between the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode and LIC SEs during the electrochemical process. Furthermore, a comparative analysis with previous reports (Figure S29) demonstrates significant breakthroughs in both discharge specific capacity and long-term cycle life. The excellent structural integrity and the establishment of a stable and rapid Li + ion pathway in the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode composites significantly contributed to the enhancement of the electrochemical performance of ASSBs.

Interfacial and Structural Analysis of the Cycled Cathode Composites. The Nyquist plots for LRMO and 5W&amp;LRMO cathode composite ASSBs collected at the fully discharged state (2.2 -4.6 V versus Li/Li + ) after the 20 th , 40 th , 60 th , 80 th , 100 th cycles at 0.2 C, as shown in Figure S30. Nyquist plots for the LRMO and 5W&amp;LRMO cathode composites were collected after 500 cycles at 0.5 C, as shown in Figure S30e,f. Compared with the LRMO cathode composite, the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode composite exhibits a lower SEI/CEI, Rct , and Rd, indicating greatly suppressed interfacial degradation and fast interfacial diffusion kinetics. Furthermore, the Mn K-edge XANES spectra of the LRMO composite cathode (Figure S31a) show a noticeable change and a shift to lower energy after 500 cycles at 0.5 C, indicating significant Mn reduction and structural transformation. 51

Figure 5. Interfacial chemical evolution of the electrode materials during cycling. (a) Top and (b) depth view of the Li intensity distribution of the high-loading LRMO cathode composites. (d) The top and (e) the depth view of the Li intensity distribution of the high- loading 5W&amp;LRMO cathode composites (the mass of LRMO and 5W&amp;LRMO cathode = 15.28 mg/cm 2 ) charged at 4.6 V after 200 cycles by TOF-SIMS. X-ray computed tomography (XCT) imaging experiments of a cycling halide SEs layer adjacent to the cathode composites charged at 4.6 V after 200 cycles: (c) LRMO, (f) 5W&amp;LRMO cathode. Scale bar, 4.5 μ m.

Conversely, the local environment around Mn in the 5W&amp;LRMO composite cathodes (Figure S31b) was maintained well after cycling, suggesting a suppressed side reaction at the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode/SE interfaces. Notably, during the long-term cycling process, the LRMO cathode/LIC SE interfaces still maintained higher resistance, indicating the irreversible and unstable interface at high voltage, especially the drastic increase in diffusion impedance. In contrast, the impedance at the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode composites interface did not exhibit significant changes due to the high-voltage interfacial stability. Moreover, Raman spectra were investigated to reveal the interfacial structural evolution of the LRMO cathode after cycling, as shown in Figure S31c,d. The proportion of the spinel phase was reduced from 16.89% to 13.68% in the cycled 5W&amp;LRMO cathode, illustrating the greatly suppressed TM ions migration due to the enhanced reversibility of oxygen redox, which maintained a stable interfacial structure for the cathodes during long-term cycling. 52 The images of the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode composite after 500 cycles exhibits the complete interface without any damage to Li + ion pathways, such as cracks, compared with the LRMO cathode composite, as shown in Figure S32. Moreover, the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode composite exhibits lower SEI/CEI, Rct, and the Rd after 2000 cycles at 1 C compared with the LRMO cathode composite, as shown in Figure S33, indicating the remarkable interfacial stability and fast interfacial diffusion kinetics of the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode composite. These results collectively contribute to reducing the charge transfer impedance, promoting interfacial Li + transport dynamics, and improving the capacity retention during long-term cycling.

ASSBs with high energy density and enhanced safety have gained attention as an alternative to advanced batteries due to their potential to overcome the limitations of traditional battery technologies. 53 The loading mass of the active materials directly influences the capacity and energy density output. However, the sluggish electrochemical kinetics resulting from slow Li + /e -transfer, poses a significant challenge to the advancement of thickness-based ASSBs, 54 particularly with LRMO cathodes. Consequently, it is imperative to understand the significance of creating a continuous Li + pathway and characterizing the Li + transport behavior in thick cathode composites. The TOF-SIMS analysis was conducted to investigate the surface and cross-sectional elemental distribution of Li (depicted in Figure 5), Mn (shown in Figure S34), and In (illustrated in Figure S35) in the thick cathode composites at a 4.6 V state after 200 cycles. The findings indicate that the utilization ratio of Li + ions in the thick LRMO cathode composites was considerably lower than that in the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode composites. This disparity is primarily attributed to the interrupted Li + /e -pathway within the LRMO cathode composites during the deep delithiation process after 200 cycles, which results in uneven delithiation behavior. In contrast, the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode composites exhibited uniform delithiation behavior, indicating a higher Li + ion utilization ratio. Evidently, the exceptional utilization ratio in the thick 5W&amp;LRMO cathode composites underscores the benefits of a continuous Li + pathway and interfacial stability for improved interfacial diffusion kinetics.

X-ray computed tomography (XCT) imaging enables the differentiation of halide SEs particles from cathode composites in ASSBs due to local contrast differences. 55 To investigate the chemical evolution of the halide SE layers adjacent to the cathode composites after cycling, an XCT analysis was conducted. Upon examining Figure 5c, it was observed that

the LRMO electrodes exhibited numerous voids on the surface of the halide SEs, which can be attributed to oxygen escaping and subsequent oxidation of the halide SEs due to irreversible surface oxygen redox reactions. The formation of voids further exacerbated the solid -solid interface contact, impeding the continuity of Li + transport and increasing the interface impedance. In sharp contrast, the reversibility of the surface oxygen redox in the 5W&amp;LRMO electrodes was significantly enhanced, as evidenced by the absence of oxygen escape and the maintenance of a complete cathode/SE interface contact even after 200 cycles without the formation of voids, as depicted in Figure 5f. As a result, the capacity retention of the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode composites was greatly improved, particularly in scenarios where a higher loading mass necessitates an unimpeded Li + pathway.

As illustrated in Figure 6, the modification mechanisms associated with the introduction of 5% Li2WO4 during the

Figure 6. Schematic illustration of the bulk/interfacial structure design strategy.

synthesis process of the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode materials for bulk and interfacial structure design were elucidated through various advanced characterization techniques. The construction of stable and rapid Li + /e -transport pathways facilitate rapid Li+ migration within the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode materials in ASSBs utilizing LIC SEs. This enhancement not only improves the reversibility of oxygen redox but also inhibits oxygen escape from the cathode materials. Furthermore, it prevents the migration of TM ions to the Li + sites within the crystal structure, thereby averting an irreversible structural phase transition. As a result, the stability of the 5W&amp;LRMO cathode/SEs interface was significantly enhanced during prolonged cycling. Additionally, the improved reversibility of oxygen redox reactions mitigated the oxidation and decomposition of LIC SEs, thereby preventing the loss of direct physical contact at the solid -solid interface. Ultimately, the integration of LRMO cathode materials in ASSBs has been realized, achieving excellent electrochemical performance and exceptional long-term cycling stability, particularly under highvoltage and high-loading composite electrodes conditions.

## ■ CONCLUSIONS

We have accomplished successful new insights to improve the Li + kinetics of the LRMO cathode and achieved higher areal capacity by introducing Li2WO4 into the bulk/interfacial LRMO structures. The introduction of Li2WO4 enables the formation of stable and rapid Li + /e -transport pathways within bulk LRMO cathodes and at the cathode/solid electrolytes (SEs) interface. Furthermore, the Li-ion diffusion kinetics was enhanced by expanding the interlayer spacing of Li(LiO2) and reducing the thickness of S(MO2) , thereby improving the stability of the layered structure. The underlying mechanisms were revealed by STEM, XAS, TOF-SIMS, XCT, and in situ GEIS, in cooperation with DRT analysis. The analysis revealed an enhancement in the oxygen redox activity of the bulk structure and an increase in the reversibility of surface oxygen redox in the cathode composites at room temperature. Consequently, the migration of TM ions and voltage decay during long-term cycling were significantly inhibited. The interfacial stability of the LRMO cathodes/SEs at high voltage was maintained throughout extended cycling, contributing to the remarkable electrochemical performance with high area capacity ( ∼ 3.15 mAh/cm 2 ) and long cycle stability in ASSBs ( ≥ 1200 cycles with 84.1% capacity retention at 1 C at 25 ° C). This discovery provides valuable insights for designing LRMO structures aimed to maximize the high energy density of allsolid-state batteries.

## ■ ASSOCIATED CONTENT

## * sı Supporting Information

The Supporting Information is available free of charge at https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/jacs.4c08115.

Materials synthesis, including the pristine LRMO and 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes. Experimental section, including XRD, STEM, HRTEM, Raman, XPS, XAFS, SEM, GEIS, TOF-SIMS, GITT, and the site occupation of atoms in the LRMO and 5W&amp;LRMO cathodes (Figures S1-S35, and Tables S1 and S2) (PDF)

## ■ AUTHOR INFORMATION

## Corresponding Authors

Chen-Zi Zhao -Tsinghua Center for Green Chemical Engineering Electrification (CCEE), Beijing Key Laboratory of Green Chemical Reaction Engineering and Technology, Department of Chemical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China ; Email: zcz@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn Qiang Zhang -Tsinghua Center for Green Chemical of Green Chemical Reaction Engineering and Technology, Department of Chemical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China; orcid.org/0000-0002-3929-

Engineering Electrification (CCEE), Beijing Key Laboratory 1541; Email: zhang-qiang@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn

## Authors

Wei-Jin Kong -Tsinghua Center for Green Chemical Engineering Electrification (CCEE), Beijing Key Laboratory of Green Chemical Reaction Engineering and Technology, Department of Chemical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China

Liang Shen -Tsinghua Center for Green Chemical Engineering Electrification (CCEE), Beijing Key Laboratory of Green Chemical Reaction Engineering and Technology, Department of Chemical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China

Shuo Sun -School of Materials Science and Engineering, Nanjing Tech University, Nanjing 211816, China

- Xue-Yan Huang -Tsinghua Center for Green Chemical Engineering Electrification (CCEE), Beijing Key Laboratory of Green Chemical Reaction Engineering and Technology, Department of Chemical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China; orcid.org/0000-0002-3511-3019
- Pan Xu -Tsinghua Center for Green Chemical Engineering Electrification (CCEE), Beijing Key Laboratory of Green Chemical Reaction Engineering and Technology, Department of Chemical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China
- Yang Lu -Tsinghua Center for Green Chemical Engineering Electrification (CCEE), Beijing Key Laboratory of Green Chemical Reaction Engineering and Technology, Department of Chemical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China
- Wen-Ze Huang -Tsinghua Center for Green Chemical Engineering Electrification (CCEE), Beijing Key Laboratory of Green Chemical Reaction Engineering and Technology, Department of Chemical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China
- Jin-Liang Li -Tsinghua Center for Green Chemical Engineering Electrification (CCEE), Beijing Key Laboratory of Green Chemical Reaction Engineering and Technology, Department of Chemical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China
- Jia-Qi Huang -Advanced Research Institute of Multidisciplinary Science, Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing 100081, China; orcid.org/0000-0001-7394-9186

Complete contact information is available at: https://pubs.acs.org/10.1021/jacs.4c08115

## Author Contributions

All authors have given approval to the final version of the manuscript.

## Notes

The authors declare no competing financial interest.

## ■ ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

This work was supported by National Key Research and Development Program (2021YFB2500300), Beijing Municipal Natural Science Foundation (Z200011, L233004), National Natural Science Foundation of China (22108151, 22109084, 22308190, 22309101, 22393900, 22393903), China Postdoctoral Science Foundation (2023M731864, 2023M731920, 2023M741922, 2022TQ0165), Tsinghua-Jiangyin Innovation Special Fund (2022JYTH0101), Tsinghua University Initiative Scientific Research Program, and the 'Shuimu Tsinghua Scholar Program of Tsinghua University'.

## ■ REFERENCES

- (1) Goodenough, J. B.; Park, K. S. The Li-ion Rechargeable Battery: A Perspective. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2013 , 135 , 1167 -1176.
- (2) Goodenough, J. B. How We Made the Li-ion Rechargeable Battery. Nat. Electron. 2018 , 1 , 204 -204.
- (3) Peng, H.-J.; Huang, J.-Q.; Cheng, X.-B.; Zhang, Q. Review on High-Loading and High-Energy Lithium -Sulfur Batteries. Adv. Energy Mater. 2017 , 7 , 1700260.
- (4) Yao, Y. X.; Wan, J.; Liang, N. Y.; Yan, C.; Wen, R.; Zhang, Q. Nucleation and Growth Mode of Solid Electrolyte Interphase in Liion Batteries. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2023 , 145 , 8001 -8006.
- (5) Hu, N.; Zhang, Y. H.; Yang, Y.; Wu, H.; Liu, Y.; Hao, C.; Zheng, Y.; Sun, D.; Li, W.; Li, J.; et al. Unraveling the Spatial Asynchronous
6. Activation Mechanism of Oxygen Redox-Involved Cathode for HighVoltage Solid-State Batteries. Adv. Energy Mater. 2024 , 14 , 2303797. (6) Li, L.; Duan, H.; Li, J.; Zhang, L.; Deng, Y.; Chen, G. Toward High Performance All-Solid-State Lithium Batteries with High-voltage Cathode Materials: Design Strategies for Solid Electrolytes, Cathode Interfaces, and Composite Electrodes. Adv. Energy Mater. 2021 , 11 , 2003154.
- (7) Feng, Y.; Zhou, L.; Ma, H.; Wu, Z.; Zhao, Q.; Li, H.; Zhang, K.; Chen, J. Challenges and Advances in Wide-temperature Rechargeable Lithium Batteries. Energy Environ. Sci. 2022 , 15 , 1711 -1759.
- (8) Liu, S.; Zhou, L.; Han, J.; Wen, K.; Guan, S.; Xue, C.; Zhang, Z.; Xu, B.; Lin, Y.; Shen, Y.; Li, L.; Nan, C.-W. Super Long-cycling Allsolid-state Battery with Thin Li 6 PS5Cl-based Electrolyte. Adv. Energy Mater. 2022 , 12 , 2200660.
- (9) Sun, S.; Zhao, C.-Z.; Yuan, H.; Lu, Y.; Hu, J.-K.; Huang, J.-Q.; Zhang, Q. Multiscale Understanding of High-energy Cathodes in Solid-State Batteries: From Atomic Scale to Macroscopic Scale. Mater. Futures 2022 , 1 , 012101.
- (10) Shao, Q.; Gao, P.; Yan, C.; Gao, M.; Du, W.; Chen, J.; Yang, Y.; Gan, J.; Wu, Z.; Zhang, C.; et al. A Redox Couple Strategy Enables Long-cycling Liand Mn-rich Layered Oxide Cathodes by Suppressing Oxygen Release. Adv. Mater. 2022 , 34 , 2108543.
- (11) Cui, S.-L.; Gao, M.-Y.; Li, G.-R.; Gao, X.-P. Insights into Li-rich Mn-based Cathode Materials with High Capacity: from Dimension to Lattice to Atom. Adv. Energy Mater. 2022 , 12 , 2003885.
- (12) Li, J.-C.; Tang, J.; Tian, J.; Cheng, C.; Liao, Y.; Hu, B.; Yu, T.; Li, H.; Liu, Z.; Rao, Y.; Deng, Y.; Zhang, L.; Zhang, X.; Guo, S.; Zhou, H. From Oxygen Redox to Sulfur Redox: A Paradigm for Li-Rich Layered Cathodes. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2024 , 146 , 7274 -7287.
- (13) Huang, J.; Ouyang, B.; Zhang, Y.; Yin, L.; Kwon, D. H.; Cai, Z.; Lun, Z.; Zeng, G.; Balasubramanian, M.; Ceder, G. Inhibiting Collective Cation Migration in Li-rich Cathode Materials As a Strategy to Mitigate Voltage Hysteresis. Nat. Mater. 2023 , 22 , 353 -361.
- (14) Liu, S.; Wang, B.; Zhang, X.; Zhao, S.; Zhang, Z.; Yu, H. Reviving the Lithium-manganese-based Layered Oxide Cathodes for Lithium-ion Batteries. Matter 2021 , 4 , 1511 -1527.
- (15) Mabokela, T. E.; Nwanya, A. C.; Ndipingwi, M. M.; Kaba, S.; Ekwere, P.; Werry, S. T.; Ikpo, C. O.; Modibane, K. D.; Iwuoha, E. I. Review-Recent Advances on High-capacity Li Ion-rich Layered Manganese Oxide Cathodes. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2021 , 168 , 070530.
- (16) Li, Q.; Ning, D.; Zhou, D.; An, K.; Schuck, G.; Wong, D.; Kong, W.; Schulz, C.; Schumacher, G.; Liu, X. Tuning Both Anionic and Cationic Redox Chemistry of Li-rich Li 1.2Mn0.6Ni0.2O2 via a 'Three-in-One' Strategy. Chem. Mater. 2020 , 32 , 9404 -9414.
- (17) Seo, D. H.; Lee, J.; Urban, A.; Malik, R.; Kang, S.; Ceder, G. The Structural and Chemical Origin of the Oxygen Redox Activity in Layered and Cation-Disordered Li-excess Cathode Materials. Nat. Chem. 2016 , 8 , 692 -697.
- (18) Feng, J.; Jiang, Y.-S.; Yu, F.-D.; Ke, W.; Que, L.-F.; Duh, J.-G.; Wang, Z.-B. Understanding Li Roles in Chemical Reversibility of O2type Li-rich Layered Cathode Materials. J. Energy Chem. 2022 , 66 , 666 -675.
- (19) Zhang, Y.; Wen, X.; Shi, Z.; Qiu, B.; Chen, G.; Liu, Z. Oxygendefects Evolution to Stimulate Continuous Capacity Increase in Cofree Li-rich Layered Oxides. J. Energy Chem. 2023 , 82 , 259 -267.
- (20) Liu, B.; Hu, N.; Li, C.; Ma, J.; Zhang, J.; Yang, Y.; Sun, D.; Yin, B.; Cui, G. Direct Observation of Li-ion Transport Heterogeneity Induced by Nanoscale Phase Separation in Li-rich Cathodes of SolidState Batteries. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2022 , 61 , No. e202209626.
- (21) Xu, L.; Chen, S.; Su, Y.; He, J.; Wang, L.; Shen, X.; Chen, L.; Cao, D.; Lu, Y.; Wang, M.; Bao, L.; Li, N.; Wu, F. Building Better Batteries: Solid-State Batteries with Li-rich Oxide Cathodes. Energy Mater. Adv. 2023 , 4 , 0045.
- (22) Shen, C.; Hu, L.; Duan, Q.; Liu, X.; Huang, S.; Jiang, Y.; Li, W.; Zhao, B.; Sun, X.; Zhang, J. Understanding Lattice Oxygen Redox Behavior in Lithium-rich Manganese-based Layered Oxides for Lithium-ion and Lithium-metal Batteries from Reaction Mechanisms to Regulation Strategies. Adv. Energy Mater. 2023 , 13 (48), 2302957.

- (23) Sun, S.; Zhao, C.-Z.; Yuan, H.; Fu, Z.-H.; Chen, X.; Lu, Y.; Li, Y.-F.; Hu, J.-K.; Dong, J.; Huang, J.-Q.; et al. Eliminating interfacial Oinvolving Degradation in Li-rich Mn-based Cathodes for All-SolidState Lithium Batteries. Sci. Adv. 2022 , 8 , No. eadd5189.
- (24) Zhang, A.; Wang, J.; Yu, R.; Zhuo, H.; Wang, C.; Ren, Z.; Wang, J. Practical Application of Li-Rich Materials in Halide All-SolidState Batteries and Interfacial Reactions between Cathodes and Electrolytes. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2023 , 15 , 8190 -8199.
- (25) Li, X.; Ye, Q.; Wu, Z.; Zhang, W.; Huang, H.; Xia, Y.; Gan, Y.; He, X.; Xia, X.; Zhang, J. High-voltage All-Solid-State Lithium Batteries with Li 3InCl6 Electrolyte and LiNbO3 Coated Lithium-rich Manganese Oxide Cathode. Electrochim. Acta 2023 , 453 , 142361.
- (26) Yu, R.; Wang, C.; Duan, H.; Jiang, M.; Zhang, A.; Fraser, A.; Zuo, J.; Wu, Y.; Sun, Y.; Zhao, Y.; et al. Manipulating Charge-transfer Kinetics of Lithium-rich Layered Oxide Cathodes in Halide All-SolidState Batteries. Adv. Mater. 2023 , 35 , 2207234.
- (27) Wang, Y.; Wu, D.; Chen, P.; Lu, P.; Wang, X.; Chen, L.; Li, H.; Wu, F. Dual-Function Modifications for High-stability Li-rich Cathode Toward Sulfide All-Solid-State Batteries. Adv. Funct. Mater. 2024 , 34 (4), 2309822.
- (28) Zhu, Y.; He, X.; Mo, Y. Origin of Outstanding Stability in the Lithium Solid Electrolyte Materials: Insights from Thermodynamic Analyses Based on First-Principles Calculations. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2015 , 7 , 23685 -23693.
- (29) Zhu, Y.; He, X.; Mo, Y. First principles study on electrochemical and chemical stability of solid electrolyte -electrode interfaces in all-solid-state Li-ion batteries. J. Mater. Chem. A 2016 , 4 , 3253 -3266.
- (30) Nolan, A. M.; Liu, Y.; Mo, Y. Solid-State Chemistries Stable with High-Energy Cathodes for Lithium-Ion Batteries. ACS Energy Lett. 2019 , 4 , 2444 -2451.
- (31) Zhang, K.; Qi, J.; Song, J.; Zuo, Y.; Yang, Y.; Yang, T.; Chen, T.; Liu, X.; Chen, L.; Xia, D. Sulfuration of Li-rich Mn-based Cathode Materials for Multianionic Redox and Stabilized Coordination Environment. Adv. Mater. 2022 , 34 , 2109564.
- (32) Hwang, J.; Myeong, S.; Lee, E.; Jang, H.; Yoon, M.; Cha, H.; Sung, J.; Kim, M. G.; Seo, D.-H.; Cho, J. Lattice-Oxygen-Stabilized Liand Mn-rich Cathodes with Sub-micrometer Particles by Modifying the Excess-Li Distribution. Adv. Mater. 2021 , 33 , 2100352.
- (33) Zuo, W.; Luo, M.; Liu, X.; Wu, J.; Liu, H.; Li, J.; Winter, M.; Fu, R.; Yang, W.; Yang, Y. Li-rich Cathodes for Rechargeable Li-based Batteries: Reaction Mechanisms and Advanced Characterization Techniques. Energy Environ. Sci. 2020 , 13 , 4450 -4497.
- (34) Li, Q.; Ning, D.; Wong, D.; An, K.; Tang, Y.; Zhou, D.; Schuck, G.; Chen, Z.; Zhang, N.; Liu, X. Improving the Oxygen Redox Reversibility of Li-rich Battery Cathode Materials via Coulombic Repulsive Interactions Strategy. Nat. Commun. 2022 , 13 , 1123.
- (35) Kong, W.; Zhang, J.; Wong, D.; Yang, W.; Yang, J.; Schulz, C.; Liu, X. Tailoring Co3d and O2p Band Centers to Inhibit Oxygen Escape for Stable 4.6 V LiCoO2 Cathodes. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2021 , 60 , 27102 -27112.
- (36) Li, Z.-Y.; Gao, R.; Zhang, J.; Zhang, X.; Hu, Z.; Liu, X. New Insights Into Designing High-rate Performance Cathode Materials for Sodium Ion Batteries by Enlarging the Slab-spacing of the Na-ion Diffusion Layer. J. Mater. Chem. A 2016 , 4 , 3453 -3461.
- (37) Shao, G.; Kong, W.; Yu, Y.; Zhang, J.; Yang, W.; Yang, J.; Li, Y.; Liu, X. Stabilizing Lattice Oxygen in a P2-Na 0.67Mn0.5Fe0.5O2 Cathode via an Integrated Strategy for High-performance Na-ion Batteries. Inorg. Chem. 2023 , 62 , 9314 -9323.
- (38) Zhang, J.; Cheng, F.; Chou, S.; Wang, J.; Gu, L.; Wang, H.; Yoshikawa, H.; Lu, Y.; Chen, J. Tuning Oxygen Redox Chemistry in Li-rich Mn-based Layered Oxide Cathodes by Modulating Cation Arrangement. Adv. Mater. 2019 , 31 , 1901808.
- (39) Song, J.; Wang, H.; Zuo, Y.; Zhang, K.; Yang, T.; Yang, Y.; Gao, C.; Chen, T.; Feng, G.; Jiang, Z.; Xiao, W.; Luo, T.; Xia, D. Building Better Full Manganese-based Cathode Materials for Next-generation Lithium-ion Batteries. Electrochem. Energy Rev. 2023 , 6 , 20.
- (40) Lu, Y.; Zhao, C.; Zhang, R.; Yuan, H.; Hou, L.; Fu, Z.; Chen, X.; Huang, J.; Zhang, Q. The Carrier Transition From Li Atoms to Li
19. Vacancies in Solid-State Lithium Alloy Anodes. Sci. Adv. 2021 , 7 , No. eabi5520.
- (41) Kochetkov, I.; Zuo, T.-T.; Ruess, R.; Singh, B.; Zhou, L.; Kaup, K.; Janek, J.; Nazar, L. Different Interfacial Reactivity of Lithium Metal Chloride Electrolytes with High Voltage Cathodes Determines Solid-State Battery Performance. Energy Environ. Sci. 2022 , 15 , 3933 -3944.
- (42) Quilty, C. D.; Wu, D.; Li, W.; Bock, D. C.; Wang, L.; Housel, L. M.; Abraham, A.; Takeuchi, K. J.; Marschilok, A. C.; Takeuchi, E. S. Electron and Ion Transport in Lithium and Lithium-ion Battery Negative and Positive Composite Electrodes. Chem. Rev. 2023 , 123 , 1327 -1363.
- (43) Liu, T.; Liu, J.; Li, L.; Yu, L.; Diao, J.; Zhou, T.; Li, S.; Dai, A.; Zhao, W.; Xu, S.; Ren, Y.; Wang, L.; Wu, T.; Qi, R.; Xiao, Y.; Zheng, J.; Cha, W.; Harder, R.; Robinson, I.; Wen, J.; Lu, J.; Pan, F.; Amine, K. Origin of Structural Degradation in Li-rich Layered Oxide Cathode. Nature 2022 , 606 , 305 -312.
- (44) Yuan, S.; Zhang, H.; Song, D.; Ma, Y.; Shi, X.; Li, C.; Zhang, L. Regulate the Lattice Oxygen Activity and Structural Stability of Lithium-rich Layered Oxides by Integrated Strategies. Chem. Eng. J. 2022 , 439 , 135677.
- (45) Zhou, M.; Zhao, J.; Wang, X.; Shen, J.; Tang, W.; Deng, Y.; Liu, R. Surface Engineering for High Stable Lithium-rich Manganese-based Cathode Materials. Chin. Chem. Lett. 2023 , 34 , 107793.
- (46) Zuo, Y.; Shang, H.; Hao, J.; Song, J.; Ning, F.; Zhang, K.; He, L.; Xia, D. Regulating the Potential of Anion Redox to Reduce the Voltage Hysteresis of Li-rich Cathode Materials. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2023 , 145 , 5174 -5182.
- (47) Yang, X.; Doyle-Davis, K.; Gao, X.; Sun, X. Recent Progress and Perspectives on Designing High-performance Thick Electrodes for All-Solid-State Lithium Batteries. eTrans 2022 , 11 , 100152.
- (48) Kuang, Y.; Chen, C.; Kirsch, D.; Hu, L. Thick Electrode Batteries: Principles, Opportunities, and Challenges. Adv. Energy Mater. 2019 , 9 , 1901457.
- (49) Zhang, K.; Li, B.; Zuo, Y.; Song, J.; Shang, H.; Ning, F.; Xia, D. Voltage Decay in Layered Li-rich Mn-based Cathode Materials. Electrochem. Energy Rev. 2019 , 2 , 606 -623.
- (50) Luo, D.; Zhu, H.; Xia, Y.; Yin, Z.; Qin, Y.; Li, T.; Zhang, Q.; Gu, L.; Peng, Y.; Zhang, J.; Wiaderek, K. M.; Huang, Y.; Yang, T.; Tang, Y.; Lan, S.; Ren, Y.; Lu, W.; Wolverton, C. M.; Liu, Q. A Li-rich Layered Oxide Cathode with Negligible Voltage Decay. Nat. Energy 2023 , 8 , 1078 -1087.
- (51) Hu, E.; Yu, X.; Lin, R.; Bi, X.; Lu, J.; Bak, S.; Nam, K.-W.; Xin, H. L.; Jaye, C.; Fischer, D. A.; Amine, K.; Yang, X.-Q. Evolution of Redox Couples in Li- and Mn-rich Cathode Materials and Mitigation of Voltage Fade by Reducing Oxygen Release. Nat. Energy 2018 , 3 , 690 -698.
- (52) Cao, X.; Sun, J.; Chang, Z.; Wang, P.; Yue, X.; Okagaki, J.; He, P.; Yoo, E.; Zhou, H. Enabling Long-term Cycling Stability Within Layered Li-rich Cathode Materials by O2/O3-Type Biphasic Design Strategy. Adv. Funct. Mater. 2022 , 32 (39), 2205199.
- (53) Zhou, L.; Zuo, T.-T.; Kwok, C. Y.; Kim, S. Y.; Assoud, A.; Zhang, Q.; Janek, J.; Nazar, L. F. High Areal Capacity, Long Cycle Life 4 V Ceramic All-Solid-State Li-ion Batteries Enabled by Chloride Solid Electrolytes. Nat. Energy 2022 , 7 , 83 -93.
- (54) Ma, T.; Wang, Z.; Wu, D.; Lu, P.; Zhu, X.; Yang, M.; Peng, J.; Chen, L.; Li, H.; Wu, F. High-areal-capacity and Long-cycle-life AllSolid-State Battery Enabled by Freeze Drying Technology. Energy Environ. Sci. 2023 , 16 , 2142 -2152.
- (55) Tippens, J.; Miers, J. C.; Afshar, A.; Lewis, J. A.; Cortes, F. J. Q.; Qiao, H.; Marchese, T. S.; Di Leo, C. V.; Saldana, C.; McDowell, M. T. Visualizing Chemomechanical Degradation of a Solid-State Battery Electrolyte. ACS Energy Lett. 2019 , 4 , 1475 -1483.