## REVIEW ARTICLE

https:/ / doi.org/10.1038/s41563-019-0431-3

## Fundamentals of inorganic solid-state electrolytes for batteries

Theodosios Famprikis/hairspace /hairspace 1,2,3 *, Pieremanuele Canepa/hairspace /hairspace 2,3,5 , James A. Dawson 2,3 , M. Saiful Islam/hairspace /hairspace 2,3 * and Christian Masquelier/hairspace /hairspace 1,3,4 *

In the critical area of sustainable energy storage, solid-state batteries have attracted considerable attention due to their potential safety, energy-density and cycle-life benefits. This Review describes recent progress in the fundamental understanding of inorganic solid electrolytes, which lie at the heart of the solid-state battery concept, by addressing key issues in the areas of multiscale ion transport, electrochemical and mechanical properties, and current processing routes. The main electrolyterelated challenges for practical solid-state devices include utilization of metal anodes, stabilization of interfaces and the maintenance of physical contact, the solutions to which hinge on gaining greater knowledge of the underlying properties of solid electrolyte materials.

T he global trend towards decarbonization has led to research on  battery  materials  taking  centre  stage  as  one  of  the  key enabling technologies for the electrification of transport and the  storage  of  intermittently  produced  solar  and  wind  energy.  In parallel, lithium-ion batteries have become ubiquitous by powering the revolution in portable electronics. However, the proliferation of electrochemical energy storage for applications of ever-increasing scale,  such  as  electromobility  and  grid  storage,  hinges  on  strict performance, safety, energy density and cost requirements for the batteries of the future, which cannot necessarily be satisfied by the current state of the art.

Research efforts have been focused in two general directions 1 : incremental  optimization  of  the  already  mature  Li-ion  technology  (advanced  Li-ion)  or  bold  modifications  of  its  core  components (post Li-ion). The latter approach includes intensive work on switching to different mobile cations (for example, Na + or  Mg 2 + ), utilizing metallic anodes and employing solid electrolytes that give rise to solid-state batteries. Such post Li-ion strategies are not mutually exclusive and can be combined to tailor the characteristics of the battery to the requirements of the application. Their combination, for instance, could include a metal-anode solid-state battery with considerable potential improvements in safety and lifetime, as well as higher energy and power densities 2 .

Fast-ion conductors or solid electrolytes lie at the heart of the solid-state battery concept. Our aim in this Review is to discuss the current  fundamental  understanding  of  the  material  properties  of inorganic solid electrolytes that are relevant to their integration in solid-state  batteries,  as  shown  in  Fig.  1.  We  focus  particularly  on recent  contributions  to  reflect  the  present  trends,  directions  and challenges in the field.

## Advantages of solid-state batteries

The main proposed benefit of solid-state batteries has been their increased safety, which stems from the absence of flammable liquid electrolytes typically employed in Li-ion cells. Detailed thermal and mechanical abuse investigations are still pending, but preliminary thermal analysis results are promising 3 .  The inherent slower reactivity of solids compared with liquids also leads to expectations of longer device lifetimes for solid-state cells. This has been demonstrated for solid-state microbatteries operating for more than 10,000 cycles 4 ;  but the scalability of this attribute has yet to be proven. A multitude of aging effects in Li-ion batteries are linked to the liquid electrolyte and are not expected in solid-state devices, for example, transition metal dissolution. However, gas evolution from the cathode materials can also be encountered in solid-state cells leading to safety and aging issues 3,5 . Furthermore, other aging mechanisms, such as mechanical degradation, might be exacerbated exactly due to the solid nature of the cells.

Inorganic  solid  electrolytes  could  also  support  battery  operation at low and high temperatures (for example, -50 to 200 °C or higher) in which conventional liquid electrolytes would freeze, boil or decompose. The low activation energies for fast-ion conduction help  to  reduce  the  variation  of  ionic  conductivity  with  temperature ensuring reliable operation. Moreover, no bulk polarization is expected in solid materials, due to the immobility of the anionic framework, potentially leading to higher power capabilities 2,6 . Kato et al. 7 have reported extraordinarily fast cycling of solid-state cells, for  example,  18  C  at  100  °C  corresponding  to  charge-discharge times of 3 min. Nevertheless, such current densities remain challenging for cells with practical energy densities 8 . Indeed, solid electrolytes are not impervious to polarization at their interfaces with electrodes, the effects of which should be carefully understood.

Adoption  of  solid-state  technology  could  lead  to  significant increases in energy density, which is the quantity of energy stored per volume or mass of a device and constitutes a critical feature for any energy storage application. Notably, bipolar stacking of the anode of one cell and the cathode of the next cell on the same current collector could be implemented, as exemplified in Fig. 1, to produce higher-voltage individual cells 9 and thus reduce the packaging.  Another  promising  prospect  is  the  stabilization  of  nextgeneration electrodes, the utilization of which has been deemed problematic in liquid-based cells. These high-performance

1 LRCS, UMR CNRS 7314, Université de Picardie Jules Verne, Amiens, France.  2 Department of Chemistry, University of Bath, Bath, UK.  3 ALISTORE European Research Institute, FR CNRS 3104, Amiens, France.  4 RS2E (Réseau Français sur le Stockage Electrochimique de l'Energie), FR CNRS 3459, Amiens, France.  5 Present address: Department of Materials Science and Engineering, The National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.

*e-mail: theo.famprikis@u-picardie.fr; m.s.islam@bath.ac.uk; christian.masquelier@u-picardie.fr

Fig. 1 | Schematic representation of a bipolar-stacked solid-state battery cell. Insets are magnified sections that highlight the three main challenges facing solid-state batteries with metal anodes: (1) inhomogeneous metal deposition, (2) formation of blocking interface and (3) contact loss on electrochemical cycling. The relative scale of the battery components is indicative of typical laboratory-scale cells. For commercial cells, inactive volume (solid electrolyte, current collectors, porosity) should be minimized and the electrodes should be balanced (chemically and mechanically 14 ).

electrodes include metallic anodes, such as Li, Na and Mg, which could lead to the highest capacities and operating voltages in their batteries 2,10 .  Similarly,  high-voltage  cathodes,  can  deliver  more energy per ion transferred, but tend to cause oxidation of common liquid  electrolytes.  The  use  of  metallic  anodes  and  high-voltage cathodes with solid electrolytes has been demonstrated in solidstate  microbatteries 4 ;  however,  their  applicability  to  large-scale systems remains to be proven.

## Challenges facing solid-state electrolytes

In view of the advantages of solid-state batteries, intensive efforts have  been  dedicated  to  their  development.  Three  main  electrolyte-related  challenges  have  been  identified  for  solid-state  battery devices 2 , as shown schematically in Fig. 1.

Utilization of metal anodes is very problematic in liquid-based cells  due  to  the  inhomogeneous  deposition  of  Li  (or  Na)  as  filament-like structures, commonly known as dendrites 11 , which grow through the separator to the cathode causing short-circuit. It had been originally expected that solid electrolytes would be impervious to this dendrite-induced failure by virtue of their mechanical rigidity, but recent reports have demonstrated the ability of metallic Li to penetrate into solid materials 12 . Extensive efforts to fully understand the fundamental mechanism of inhomogeneous deposition of Li through solid electrolytes are underway.

A second challenge is stabilization of interfaces. The interfacial composition and structure between solid electrolytes and electrode materials  often  present  major  deviations  from  those  of  the  bulk materials.  The  formation  of  ionically  resistive  or  electron-conducting  decomposition  products  have  inhibited  the  performance of solid-state devices. Numerous experimental and computational techniques have been developed to probe the formation and behaviour of such interfaces. Elucidating the nature of interfaces will contribute to establishing a rational approach towards the combination of materials in the new generation of solid-state cells.

The third challenge is maintenance of physical contact. A prominent  disadvantage  of  solid-state  systems  is  the  reliance  of  ionic diffusion  on  contact  of  solid  particles.  These  point  contacts  are especially sensitive to stresses developed on electrochemical cycling in electrode materials 13 , which can lead to the formation and propagation  of  cracks 14 ,  as  well  as  delamination  of  interfaces 15,16 .  The development of effective strategies to alleviate the issue of physical contact is imperative in the engineering of solid-state batteries.

The  solutions  to  these  challenges  hinge  on  our  knowledge  of the  fundamental  properties  of  solid  electrolyte  materials.  Here, we review the current state-of-the-art understanding of inorganic solid electrolytes in the areas of multiscale ion transport, electrochemical stability and mechanics, and their reliance on the processing routes available.

## Multiscale ion transport

The migration of ions in a solid-state battery is a multiscale process composed of mechanisms that manifest at different length scales, from the atomic scale up to the device scale, as shown in Fig. 2. Importantly, the final impedance of a device is a function of all these mechanisms. The techniques that can be used to probe ion conduction at varying scales are diverse and are often limited in their space or time resolution, making multi-technique approaches imperative for successful interpretation.

Atomic scale. At  the  atomic scale (Å), mobile cations (for example, Li + , Na + or Mg 2 + ) diffuse in solids along favourable migration pathways and can be visualized as ion hops between ground-state stable sites and/or intermediate metastable sites of the framework constituted of anions (for example, O 2, S 2or polyanionic moieties). The sites and their energies are mainly defined by their local ion coordination,  that  is,  bonding  environment,  which  in  crystalline compounds tends  to  be  tetrahedral  or  octahedral.  Consequently, the migration pathway of an ion in a material is a function of the availability and interconnectivity of different sites as defined by the arrangement of anions. For crystals, it had long been noticed that body-centred cubic anionic frameworks were common among the best ionic conductors (for example, α -AgI) 17 . Wang et al. 18 recently proposed that this framework allows direct hops between adjacent tetrahedral sites with low activation energy ( E a ) and does not necessitate tetrahedral-octahedral hops with high E a . Indeed, this bodycentred cubic arrangement of anions is present in several fast ion conductors, such as Li 10 GeP2S12 and Li 7 P3 S11 and provides a design criterion in the search for new materials.

In the crystalline case, cationic vacancies or interstitials are perceived as the mobile charged species. The three principal migration mechanisms shown in Fig. 3a are: (1) vacancy diffusion in which an ion migrates into a neighbouring vacant site, (2) direct interstitial mechanism between sites not fully occupied and (3) concerted or correlated interstitialcy (knock-on) mechanism, where the migrating interstitial ion displaces a neighbouring lattice ion into the adjacent site.

The mobility, u , of an ion in a solid electrolyte captures its ability to move through the solid lattice. The product of charge ( q ), concentration ( n ) and mobility of charge carriers in a solid then defines its ionic conductivity, σ ,  which is the key descriptor for ion transport (equation (1)). We note that typically, only a fraction of total ions in a solid is mobile but quantification of n (for example, ref. 19 ) is not commonplace. Ion conduction is a thermally activated process described by a modified Arrhenius relationship:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

with m typically equal to -1, k B the Boltzmann constant, T the temperature and E a a  characteristic activation energy for ion conduction. E a includes the energy needed to form the mobile defects ( E f ) and the energy barrier for their migration ( E m), which corresponds to the highest energy along the conduction path, that is, the transition state for conduction, as shown in Fig. 3. For the simplest case of  direct,  uncorrelated  hopping,  the  pre-factor, σ 0 ,  the  entropy  of

Fig. 2 | Multiscale ion transport and major associated techniques. Arrows denote the transport of mobile cations in the solid electrolyte (SE) framework (in green). The major descriptors relating to ion transport are highlighted at each length scale: energy ( E Hop ) and frequency of hops ( ν Hop ) at the atomic scale; the conductivities ( σ i ) and area-specific resistances (ASR i ) of defining features at larger scales; culminating in total device impedance, Z SSB . The techniques utilized to directly probe ion transport (that is, quantitatively determine the above descriptors; in dark blue) and complementary methods used to aid interpretation (in light blue) are placed in their associated length scales.

migration ( Δ S m), the jump distance ( α 0 ) and the attempt frequency ( ν 0 ), are related as follows:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

The geometric factor z ( ≤ 1) depends on the directionality of the conduction  mechanism.  'Energy  landscape'  schematics  are  commonly used to visualize E m, v 0 and α 0 , as well as the various conduction mechanisms, as shown in Fig. 3.

In the intrinsic regime, the concentration of mobile charged species, n , is temperature dependent and relates to the defect formation energy of vacancies and/or interstitials ( E f ). Ion doping by substitution of aliovalent ions (that is, dopants with a different valence from the  host  ions)  can  also  create  charge-compensating  vacancies  or interstitials. For example, Si 4 + dopants on the P 5 + site in Na 3 PS4 create Na + interstitials 20 , while Cl -dopants on the S 2site in the same material generate Na + vacancies 21 . In this extrinsic regime, the defect population is determined by the dopant concentration and in the case of both Na 3 + x Si x P1 -x S4 (ref. 22 ) and Na 3 -x PS4 -x Cl x (ref. 23 ) leads to significantly increased conductivities, in accordance with equation (2).

However, the effect of elemental substitutions is not limited to the concentration of mobile defects. For example, extensive cation mixing in the lithium superionic  conductor  (LISICON)-type Li 4 ± x Si 1x X x O4  (X = P ,  Al  and/or  Ge)  was  shown  to  promote  the change of the atomistic conduction mechanism to a 'superionic' one, attributed to a flattening of the energy landscape, thus enabling low migration energies 24,25 .  Other  authors  have  argued  that  increasing the mobile ion concentration above the number of available groundstate  sites  in  materials,  such  as  garnets  and  NASICONs  (sodium superionic  conductors),  forces  excess  mobile  ions  into  higherenergy (metastable) sites and enables concerted ion migration, that is, collective migration of multiple cations, akin to the intersticialcy mechanism shown in Fig. 3a, with reduced migration energy 26,27 .

Anion frameworks that are mechanically softer, such as sulfides or selenides, have been thought to aid ion migration 28 . However, there are two competing effects arising from softer lattice phonons 29 :  (1) the activation energy for conduction ( E a ) decreases, aiding ion diffusion, but (2) lower lattice vibration frequencies simultaneously lead to lower hopping attempt frequencies, ν 0 , and decreasing the migration entropy, Δ S m (ref. 30 ), thus promoting a decrease of the Arrhenius pre-factor (equation (2)). Recently, Kraft et al. demonstrated that the attempt frequency correlates closely to the Debye frequency derived from speed-of-sound measurements, which can act as a convenient descriptor for further investigations on ionic conductors 29 . Muy et al. also  confirmed  the  correlation  between  the  activation  energy  for conduction ( E a ) and the phonon band centres using inelastic neutron scattering on a variety of oxide and sulfide LISICON materials 31 .

Rotations of polyanionic moieties (for example, SO 4 2-  and PO 4 3-) have been proposed to aid ionic conduction and have been referred to  as  the  paddle-wheel  effect 17 .  Such  explanations  have  recently resurfaced  in  light  of  computational  results  suggesting  correlation between ionic conductivity and the rotational freedom of polyanions (typically tetrahedra including PS 4 3(ref. 32 ) or BH 4 -(ref. 33 ), but also OH -  (ref. 34 ) dipoles). Quasi-elastic neutron scattering experiments have attempted to provide direct evidence of paddle-wheel effects, most  recently  in  LiCB 11 H12 and  NaCB 11 H12 ,  demonstrating  a  link between CB11 H12 -rotational mobility and Li + or Na + diffusivity 35,36 .

Since the charge transfer in solid electrolytes is directly linked to mass transfer of the charged defects, it is often insightful to consider their  diffusivity, D ,  linked  to  the  conductivity  by  the  well-known Nernst-Einstein relationship

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where H R is  the  Haven  ratio,  which  is  related  to  the  factor z in equation  (2),  and  depends  on  the  specific  atomic-scale  diffusion

Fig. 3 | Cation migration mechanisms and associated energy profiles.

a , The arrows indicate three typical migration mechanisms: vacancy, direct interstitial and correlated (interstitialcy) involving a single or multiple sites (blue and red, respectively). Circles represent cations in stable (green) and metastable (orange) sites of a model crystal lattice. Dotted lines represent the transition state for cation hopping as imposed by the anionic framework (not shown explicitly). b , c , The energy profiles associated with cation migration via direct vacancy or interstitial hopping ( b ) and correlated hopping ( c ) are shown with their associated hopping energies, E m , hopping distances α 0 and hopping frequencies, ν 0 .

mechanism. D is typically accessible by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy 37  and molecular dynamics simulations, from which equation (3) has been routinely applied to derive values of ionic  conductivity 24,38 .  Despite  reasonable  agreement  between  the different techniques (for example, ref. 24 ), we note that (1) the different techniques probe ion transport at different scales (Fig. 2) and (2) there is recent debate about the validity of equation (3) in the case of solid electrolytes where the migration of multiple defects is highly correlated, the precise concentration of mobile charge carriers is unclear and/or in solid electrolytes that exhibit anisotropic migration pathways 39 .

While crystalline materials have provided an excellent platform to develop our understanding of ion conduction, some of the most relevant  solid  electrolytes  show  partial  or  complete  amorphous character.  The  lack  of  long-range  periodicity  in  these  materials implies  the  absence  of  regular  coordination  sites  and  symmetric long-range migration pathways. Despite diligent efforts, a unified theory for conduction in the amorphous state is not fully established 40,41 .  Nevertheless,  elements  of  the  hopping  theory  can  still be utilized, but require a statistical treatment, such as considering a distribution of activation energies for hops instead of a discreet one. Pair distribution function analysis of total scattering data 42 in combination  with  reverse  Monte  Carlo  approaches,  can  provide direct visualization of the atomic arrangements and diffusion pathways  in  amorphous  samples 43,44 .  Such  analyses,  corroborated  by NMR, vibrational and X-ray photoelectron (XPS) spectroscopies, may serve to establish the link between structural units (for example, the anion framework) and conductivity in glasses 45,46 .  Due to the large system sizes required for satisfactory statistical analysis, direct  probing  of  ion  dynamics  at  the  atomic  scale  by  ab  initio molecular  dynamics  calculations  can  be  difficult 38 .  Nevertheless, promising  alternatives  are  being  developed,  including  classical interatomic  potentials  derived  from  machine  learning  for  amorphous Li 3 PO4 (ref. 47 ).

Micro- and mesoscopic scales. Compositional or structural inhomogeneities  manifesting  at  the  nanometre  to  micrometre  scales can  often  dominate  the  macroscopic  ionic  conductivity,  either beneficially 48-50 or detrimentally 51,52 .  The prime example of microstructural features are grain boundaries, surfaces of contact between crystallites of different orientation in polycrystalline samples, which can  differ  extensively  from  the  bulk  crystal  in  terms  of  structure and composition. Grain boundaries have been shown to increase the resistance for ion migration in most cases, making them undesirable in macroscopic samples. It has been proposed that positive space  charging  (anionic  vacancies)  can  render  grain  boundaries repulsive for mobile cations 51 and that grain boundaries can act as sinks of ionically blocking impurities 53 . From an atomistic point of view, it has been shown that the percolation of mobile cations can be severely blocked by the distortions imposed by the misalignment of grains 52 . The magnitude of the effect depends on the material and seems to be negligible for sulfide solid electrolytes 54 . It is also conceivable that grain boundaries in certain materials could also aid conduction parallel to their surface by forming pathways of undercoordinated  sites.  In  general,  control  over  the  concentration  and atomistic nature of grain boundaries can lead to tuning of ionic conductivity 52,55 and, although sometimes tedious, the development of inventive techniques for their characterization (for example, ref. 54 ) will be insightful.

There is growing interest in glass-ceramic ion conductors, which are  materials  that  result  from  a  controlled  crystallization  of  an amorphous phase 56 .  This  is  because  in  some  materials,  the  glassceramic  microstructure  can  result  in  stabilization  of  metastable crystal  structures,  such  as  Li 7 P3 S11 (refs. 45,57 )  with  an  increase  of ionic conductivity by several orders of magnitude. It has recently been  shown  that  highly  performing  ionic  conductors,  previously thought to be completely amorphous, as determined by X-ray diffraction,  might  be  composed  of  nanocrystallites  embedded  in  an amorphous matrix, as demonstrated for 'glassy' Li 3 PS4 with  highresolution  transmission  electron  microscopy 49 .  Such  nanocrystalline microstructures have been proposed to enchance conductivity by activation of surface conduction mechanisms in multiple materials, such as Li 3 PS4 (ref. 48 ),  and LiBH 4 (ref. 50 ).  Understanding of these synergistic effects of amorphous and crystalline phases constitutes an exciting avenue for further development.

Another  source  of  resistance  to  ion  transport  for  solid  electrolytes  and  solid-state  batteries  is  inadequate  physical  contact between solid particles. In polycrystalline materials and composite electrodes, the contact between solid particles must be maximized and maintained for efficient ionic conduction to take place. In contrast, the existence of porosity implies the occurrence of tortuous

paths  for  ion  conduction  and  inhomogeneous  current  densities. These effects contribute to an increase of observable resistance to macroscopic ion transport. Therefore, the effective densification of polycrystalline solid electrolytes and composite electrodes becomes crucial to enhance ionic transport, but may represent a major challenge when the mechanical properties and the processability of solid electrolyte  (and  electrode)  materials  are  taken  into  account.  For both oxide 55 and sulfides 58 ,  a  decrease in porosity has been correlated with increased conductivity as a result of stronger grain-grain or particle-particle contact.

Macroscopic  scale. The  ionic  conductivity  of  solid  materials  is typically measured on macroscopic samples, often pellets, through impedance  spectroscopy  measurements.  Impedance  spectra  are sensitive  to  structural  features  in  all  preceding  length  scales  and measure the  total  macroscopic  ionic  conductivity.  Deconvoluting each component of the total macroscopic ionic conductivity, such as point contacts, grain boundaries, amorphous phases and impurities, requires fitting to abstract models often based on empirical hypotheses  involving  the  observed  capacitances.  As  a  result,  the reproducibility  of  impedance  spectroscopy-derived  conductivities (and associated activation energies) between research groups can vary within about an order of magnitude, as, for example, for the recently discovered Na 11 Sn2 PS12 (refs. 59,60 ).

Much of the research effort in the past decade has been focused on maximizing the overall ionic conductivity of macroscopic solid electrolyte samples, σ macro . This has led to macroscopic, ambient-temperature conductivity values, of the order of 10 mS cm -1 for Li + (ref. 7 ), 1 mS cm -1 for Na + (refs. 59,60 ) and 0.1 mS cm -1 for Mg 2 + (ref. 61 ). Notably, these values of ionic conductivity are directly contesting those of liquid electrolytes (~10 mS cm -1 ) and numerous previous reviews have carefully discussed relevant trends of various material families 62,63 .

Device scale. The critical impedance value Z device is obtained at the device level, and includes contributions from materials other than the  solid  electrolyte,  particularly,  the  conductivity  of  interphases that  might  form.  Drawing  a  link  between σ macro and Z device is  not trivial,  in  that  a  straightforward  combination  of  solid  electrolytes with  the  highest  ionic  conductivity  and  high-performance  electrodes does not necessarily lead to high-performance batteries. For example, limited performance was shown for Li 6 PS5 Cl  argyrodite electrolytes  combined  with  the  commercial  electrodes  LiCoO 2 , LiNi 1/3 Co1/3 Mn1/3 O2  and  LiMn 2 O4  (ref. 64 ).  The  majority  of  solid electrolytes are unstable and decompose in contact with electrode materials 65 .  The  interphases  formed  are  typically  resistive  to  ion transport and represent one of the main roadblocks to ionic conduction 66,67 .  As  such, an electrolyte with much lower macroscopic conductivity  can  exhibit  lower  device  impedance  if  it  manifests more favourable compatibility with the electrodes 4 .

In practice, the thickness, t , of planar conductive features, such as interfaces is often irrelevant or hard to determine experimentally, but can be assumed constant (in the case of passivated interphases). Rather  than  conductivity,  it  becomes  more  convenient  to  discuss impedence in terms of a thickness-independent area-specific resistance (ASR), equal to t / σ .

The  contribution  of  the  ASRs  to  the  overall  impedance  for  a given material pair then only depends on the area of ionic contact between the solid electrolyte and active material, typically quantified in terms of contact area per volume of composite 68 .  It  follows that ASR should be minimized and the contact area maximized. It is noted however, that this is the same contact area that is susceptible  to  resistive  interface  formation  and  degradation  on  cycling. The effect of such interphase resistances can range from dominating (k Ω cm 2 ) to negligible 67,69-71 . For composite electrodes, the active area of ionic contact between electrolyte and active electrode material can be approximated electrochemically and is often much less than the total area of active material 72,73 .  Special engineering must go into the 3D structure of composite electrodes with the goal of maximizing the coverage of electrodes by solid electrolytes 68 ; in contrast to liquid electrolytes, which 'simply' wet the electrode particles.

Micro-  and  mesostructural  parameters  can  once  again  dominate the overall ion transport at the device scale 74 . Similarly to the separator layer, porosity in the composite electrodes implies tortuous and/or blocked paths for ionic and electronic conduction and can severely limit the performance of the device 75 . For high energy density and to ensure sufficient electronic percolation, the volume fraction of solid electrolyte in the electrodes should be minimized to at least &lt; 50% (ref. 68 ). However, lower solid electrolyte contents decrease the effective ionic conductivity of the composite electrode 75 and this fraction should remain &gt; 25% to avoid ionic percolation limitations 68 .  Naturally the above thresholds are also a function of particle size (distribution) in the composites and smaller electrode (and electrolyte) particle sizes promote both lower electronic and ionic  percolation  thresholds,  respectively,  and  high  active  area  of ionic contact available to charge transfer 68,74,76 . In turn, charge-transfer resistances depend strongly on the electronic and ionic conductivity of the involved phases and consequently on cycling rate 74 and possibly induced space charging effects 77 .

Any  change  in  the  chemical  potential  of  the  mobile  species, such as at the interface between solid electrolyte and electrode, will generate a driving force for charge reorganization due to equilibration of the Fermi energies 78 .  At  thermodynamic equilibrium, the voltage versus Li/Li + is connected to the Li chemical potential μ Li according to:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where F is  the  Faraday  constant.  In  the  interfacial  region,  the μ Li (voltage) undergoes a drastic variation (several mV nm -1 ). The low voltage of the anode drives mobile cations into the electrolyte and vice versa for the cathode, inducing the depletion or accumulation of  charge  carriers  and  creating  nanometre-length  space-charged regions (Fig. 4) 6,77,78 .  Such an effect might be exacerbated in solidstate batteries due to the inability of solid electrolytes to exhibit bulk polarization in contrast to liquids due to their lower permittivity 6 .

Most importantly, this rearrangement of mobile species constitutes the first step towards possible decomposition of solid electrolytes. Understanding these decomposition reactions and employing strategies to increase the effective electrochemical stability of solid electrolytes are imperative for long-term stable operation and are central to the following section on electrochemical stability.

## electrochemical stability

Electrochemical reactions can be observed on contact at the interface  of  the  solid  electrolyte  and  electrode.  The  driving  force  for such reactions originates from the thermodynamics of mixing the compositions of the solid electrolyte and the electrode to create new stable  phases,  denoted  the  interphase,  as  shown  in  Fig.  5a.  (The term interface refers generally to the area of contact between two phases, whereas the term interphase refers to the new phases that are formed at the interface due to electrochemical reactions.) We distinguish  between  pure  redox  decomposition  of  the  electrolyte and chemical reactions between electrolyte and electrode.

Redox decomposition is characterized by the addition or extraction of electrons and/or mobile cations (Li + ,  Na + or  Mg 2 + )  in  the solid electrolyte when paired with the electrodes. An example is the reaction of Li 3 PS4 in contact with Li metal 65,79-81 :

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Fig. 4 | evolution of chemical potential across the solid electrolyte in contact with an anode and a cathode. The y axes denote the voltage ( V , increasing) and the chemical potential ( μ , decreasing) (see equation (4)) of the mobile cation as a function of the solid electrolyte (SE) thickness on the x axis. The evolution of the chemical potential leads to a concentration of the mobile cation close to the anode and dilution close to the cathode. These concentration gradients can directly lead to decomposition of the solid electrolyte and/or reaction with the electrodes. This phenomenon exemplified here for Li can also apply to Na and Mg.

Such reactions can be partially reversible 79 ,  as exemplified by a solid-state  battery  made  from  a  single  material,  Li 10 GeP2S12 ,  oxidized and reduced reversibly 82 .

In  contrast,  chemical  reactions  involve  the  formation  of  new phases in the combined compositional space of the electrolyte and cathode materials. For example, at the interface of Na 3 PS4 and layered NaMO2 (M = Co,  Ni,  Mn  or  Cr),  the  O 2 --S 2 -displacement reaction is predicted 83,84 :

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Redox and chemical reactions can happen in sequence or simultaneously,  together  dictating  the  electrochemical  stability  of  the solid electrolyte. The extent of such reactions depends highly on the power applied and the state of charge of the battery. For example, at the interface of Li 3 PS4 and LiCoO2 , the following reaction is predicted 65 :

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

In  practice,  rather  than  formation  of  distinct  stoichiometric phases, intermixing might also occur at the interface. Such intermixing is the case of equation (7), where the interphase was composed of nanocrystals rich in Co and S as well as extensive P , Co, O and S interdiffusion between electrolyte and electrode, as characterized by transmission electron microscopy 66 .

The stability window of an electrolyte is the voltage range that it can sustain without redox decomposition, as indicated schematically  in  Fig.  4.  Thermodynamically,  the  stability  windows  can  be defined by considering the free energy of the decomposition reactions as a function of the voltage. Richards et al. developed a methodology to calculate the energies of such reactions for a multitude of  Li  solid  electrolytes  by  utilizing μ Li as  a  proxy  for  the  voltage

## REVIEW AR TICLE

(equation  (4)) 65 ,  and  other  researchers  have  expanded  this  for Na (ref. 84 )  and  Mg  (ref. 85 )  creating  effective  libraries  of  stability windows.  In  practice,  such  computed  stability  windows  may  be extended  due  to  stabilizing  kinetic  effects.  A  certain  'overpotential' beyond the thermodynamic stability limit is often required to drive the atomic rearrangements associated with decomposition, for example, about ± 0.5 V in the case of Na 3 PS4 (ref. 83 ).  The magnitude of this required overpotential could be linked to the mobility of charged species in the electrolyte 86 , which would explain the trend for  the  most  conductive electrolytes to decompose most easily in contact with electrodes.

The high-voltage oxidation stability of solid electrolytes is largely set by the anion framework and specifically its propensity to give up electrons, typically limited by the anion with the lowest ionization potential following the order N 3 -&lt; P 3 -&lt; H -&lt;&lt; S 2 -&lt; I -&lt; O 2 -&lt; Br -&lt; Cl -&lt;&lt; F -(ref. 65 ). Inversely, the stability against reduction is set by the propensity of the solid electrolyte to accept electrons, accounted by the electron affinity of the (non-mobile) cations. We note that the electron affinity can be affected by the specific structure and bonding characteristics. For example, a phosphorus atom will be reduced more easily if weakly bonded to sulfur atoms compared with when strongly bonded to oxygen species, as exemplified by the increased stability of Li 3 PO4 compared with Li 3 PS4 (ref. 65 ). Indeed,  the  stability  against  reduction  has  been  experimentally correlated with bond stiffness of polyanion units 31 for a variety of LISICON-type materials. The stability of solid electrolytes of analogous  composition  against  reduction  might  be  better  against  Na metal compared with Li due to their difference in absolute potential, as suggested for example by the stability of NaBH 4 versus Na 0 in contrast to the instability of LiBH 4 versus Li 0 (ref. 87 ).

It is important to note that electrochemical reactions at the solid electrolyte/electrode  interface  do  not  necessarily  preclude  battery functionality.  Given  that  reactivity  is  favoured,  the  kinetics  and consequently the extent of reaction are governed by the interfacial transport  properties.  As  evident  from  equations  (5)  and  (7),  the electrochemical reactions at the electrodes typically involve cation (Li + ,  Na + or Mg 2 + ) and electron mobility. If either is impeded, the reaction is blocked and the interface becomes kinetically stabilized. However, for the battery to function, mobile cations must transverse the interface. As such, the ideal interphase for a battery will be a good ionic conductor and an excellent electronic insulator. Such a scenario will lead to an interphase of finite thickness, stable against further electrochemical decomposition with a constant impedance contribution to the full cell. In the worst case, an interphase that is sufficiently  conducting  for  electrons  and  mobile  cations,  denoted as a mixed-conducting interphase, can sustain extensive reactions, leading  to  an  ever-growing  thickness 71 ,  unmanageable  resistance and short-circuit in the case of metallic anodes. Solid electrolytes containing  metallic  elements  are  especially  prone  to  form  such interphases at low voltages, due to their tendency to reduction, for example, Ti in NASICONs and perovskites 80,88  or Ge in NASICONs, LISICONs and Li 10 GeP2S12 (refs. 69,89,90 ).

In Fig. 5b, we have identified three types of functional interfaces that can serve to operate solid-state batteries: (1) intrinsically stable, (2) kinetically stabilized and (3) artificially protected.

Intrinsic  stability  relates  to  the  case  of  no  reactivity  between the two materials. This is an ideal case and almost no such interfaces are known with metallic electrodes with a notable exception of Naβ -Al 2 O3 versus Na metal 91 .  A  debated case is that of doped Li 7 La3 Zr2 O12 garnet,  which  becomes  slightly  lithiated  on  contact with  Li  metal.  This  lithiation  causes  a  phase  transition  from  the cubic to the tetragonal phase 92,93 . The macroscopic ionic conductivity of the tetragonal phase is lower, but it barely limits conduction as a nanometric film, constituting an ideal interphase 92 . It is worth noting  that  theoretical  investigations  reveal  instead  a  slight  thermodynamic instability of Li 7 La3 Zr2 O12 , albeit at very low potentials

Fig. 5 | reaction possibilities and functional scenarios for solid electrolyte/electrode interfaces in solid-state batteries. a , b , Illustration of the parasitic (1) redox, (2) chemical and (3) electrochemical reactions that can take place depending on their respective free energy, Δ G ( a ), imposing the need for interface (xfc) engineering of functional batteries through (1) intrinsic stability, (2) kinetically stabilized decomposition and/ or (3) artificial protection strategies ( b ). Effective interfaces will allow Li + diffusion and prevent electrons or other atoms/ions from interdiffusing. SE and E denote atomic species in the solid electrolyte and electrode materials, respectively. x , y and n are stoichiometric coefficients and n can be positive or negative (reduction or oxidation, respectively).

(0.05  V  versus  Li 0 )  and  with  low  reaction  energies  (20  meV  per atom) 65,80 .  As  such  the  observed  stability  of  garnet  electrolytes against Li 0 is likely the result of kinetic stabilization.

Lithium phosphate oxynitride (LiPON) constitutes an excellent example of kinetic interface stabilization 94 . LiPON decomposes into Li 3 PO4 and Li 3 N (among others) to form a functional interphase that  is  nanometrically  thin,  electrochemically  stable  and  ionically conductive 65,94 rendering its decomposition negligible with respect to the electrochemical performance of the battery. Computationally predicted decomposition reactions of solid electrolyte materials in the  presence  of  electrodes 65,80,84 can  be  directly  used  to  assess  the compatibility between solid electrolytes and electrodes as well as to design novel solid electrolytes with engineered decomposition. The rational design of new solid electrolytes could mimic the practice of additive inclusion in liquid electrolytes to stabilize the solid electrolyte interphase.

Artificial protection involves the inclusion of a preformed coating layer as a buffer material between the solid electrolyte and the electrode, with the goal of modifying the effective stability window of the solid electrolyte. Coating materials, typically acidic oxides (for example, Li 4 Ti 5 O12 (ref. 95 ), LiNb 1 -x Ta x O3 (refs. 7,70 ) or Li 3 -x B1 -x C x O3 (ref. 96 ))  have  become  commonplace  to  protect  solid  electrolytes, mostly  sulfides,  from  oxidation.  The  coatings  are  expected  to smooth the voltage drop at the interface by providing an environment where the Li potential is intermediate between that of the solid electrolyte and the cathode materials (see Fig. 4). Some researchers maintain that the reduction in resistance is linked to a mitigation of  space  charging 77 ,  but  others  propose  that  the  critical  action  of these  coatings  is  the  insulation  of  the  electrolyte/electrode  interface  against  diffusion  of  electrons  and  non-Li  atomic  species 66,78 . Artificial protection strategies are also attempted on the anode side, especially for Li metal, but analogous work on Na- and Mg-metal anodes is still lacking.

Apart from reactions with the electrode materials, redox decomposition can also occur if the electrolyte is placed in contact with the electronic percolation network, such as any conductive additive or the current collectors themselves 83,97 . Thus, coating strategies might also  have  to  be  extended  to  additives  and  current  collectors 97 ,  or applied to the electrolyte particles instead. Another viable artificial protection strategy is the dual-electrolyte concept, where one solid electrolyte with high stability against reduction is in contact with the anode and another solid electrolyte stable against oxidation is placed against the cathode 7,98 .

Ideal solid electrolyte/electrode interphases are nanometrically thin  and  'buried'  within  the  bulk  of  the  composite  electrode  and represent only a very small fraction of the mass and volume of the battery. As such, their direct characterization is not straightforward. Electrochemical investigations can evaluate the effect of interphases on battery performance but cannot alone describe their underlying chemical nature. The importance of solid electrolyte/electrode interphases  has  ignited  the  development  of  numerous  innovative techniques and experimental setups for their study, as summarized in Table 1.

Given the minimal thickness of the interphases, techniques with nanometric resolution provide distinct advantages to their understanding.  Ex  situ  XPS  has  been  successfully  implemented  in  the post mortem analysis of buried interphases of Li 6 PS5 Cl against multiple cathode materials 64 . Another approach involves taking in situ XPS measurements with the synchronous deposition of Li or Na to mimic the effect of lithiation/sodiation on contact of various electrolytes with the respective metals 94 . Other novel approaches include 2D  exchange  NMR  experiments,  which  have  helped  to  rationalize  the  observed  rise  of  impedance  in  the  Li 6 PS5 Br/Li 2 S  interface on  cycling 67 .  Exciting  avenues  also  include  the  development  of in  situ  high-resolution  transmission  electron  microscopy  experiments  to  track  the  atomic  rearrangements  at  the  interface  and elucidate their effects 92 .

Another approach to study interfaces is by artificially promoting interfacial reactions. This can be achieved by preparing solid electrolyte/carbon  composites  acting  as  active  electrodes  and  cycling them against the respective metal 83,99 .  Mixing the solid electrolyte with  carbon  improves  the  electronic  contacts,  and  eases  the  (de) intercalation  of  the  mobile  cations  into  and  from  the  solid  electrolyte  on  its  reduction  or  oxidation 97 .  As  such,  the  interphase  is formed at a much larger scale, and is thus accessible by more traditional bulk characterization methods (for example, diffraction) 83,99 . Alternatively, the identified decomposition products can be directly synthesized in bulk to study their relevant electrical and structural properties 100-102 . The disadvantage of these (ex situ) strategies is that spatial information regarding the size and morphology of the real interphase and specific resistances is lost.

In parallel, computational methods based on density functional theory can access thermodynamic quantities that compare directly with experiments, such as electrochemical stability windows 65,80 and chemical  reactivity  with  specific  electrodes 65,83,103 .  However,  two main limitations of computational methods can be identified: (1)

Table 1 | experimental and computational techniques that have been employed to characterize solid electrolyte/electrode interfaces for solid-state batteries

|                        | Technique (sub-techniques)                                                                                 | Observables/descriptors                                             | Operando a   | Sub-micron spatial resolution b   | representative examples   |
|------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------|-----------------------------------|---------------------------|
| Electrochemistry       | Impedance spectroscopy                                                                                     | Macroscopic resistances, capacitances, permittivity                 | X            |                                   | Refs. 69,70,95            |
| Electrochemistry       | Electrochemical (de-) lithiation/sodiation                                                                 | Effective stability window                                          |              |                                   | Refs. 83,99               |
| Electrochemistry       | Full-cell cycling                                                                                          | Capacity fade, overpotential                                        | X            |                                   | Refs. 7,15                |
| Spectroscopy           | Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (pulse field gradient, 2D correlations)                            | Local structure, diffusivity and activation energy, charge transfer | X            |                                   | Refs. 67,129              |
| Spectroscopy           | X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy                                                                           | Composition, local structure, oxidation states                      |              | X                                 | Refs. 64,88,94,130        |
| Spectroscopy           | X-ray absorption spectroscopy                                                                              | Local structure, oxidation states                                   |              | X                                 | Refs. 101,131             |
| Spectroscopy           | Raman spectroscopy                                                                                         | Local structure                                                     | X            | X                                 | Refs. 79,93               |
| Spectroscopy           | Time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry                                                             | 3D composition                                                      |              | X                                 | Refs. 132,133             |
| Microscopy and Imaging | Scanning electron microscopy (energy dispersive spectroscopy, Auger spectroscopy)                          | 2D microstructure, 2D composition                                   |              | X                                 | Refs. 15,64               |
| Microscopy and Imaging | Transmission electron microscopy (electron diffraction, electron loss- and energy dispersive spectroscopy) | Atomic-scale structure, 2D composition, oxidation states            |              | X                                 | Refs. 66,92,134           |
| Microscopy and Imaging | Neutron depth profiling                                                                                    | 3D composition                                                      | X            |                                   | Refs. 135,136             |
| Microscopy and Imaging | X-ray tomography                                                                                           | 3D microstructure                                                   | X            |                                   | Refs. 70,137              |
| Computation            | Phase diagrams from first principles                                                                       | Composition, thermodynamic stability window                         | NA           |                                   | Refs. 65,80               |
| Computation            | Molecular dynamics                                                                                         | Atomic-scale structure, reaction mechanism, diffusivity             | NA           | X                                 | Refs. 84,138              |

The pertinent descriptors of interface performance that can be extracted from each technique (and sub-techniques) are listed along with representative examples from recent literature.  a Allowing for probing of the interface in a working complete solid-state battery cell. b Allowing for spatial resolution at the 1-100 nm scale, typically required to spatially identify interphases.

the construction of phase diagrams depends on previous knowledge of the stable crystalline phases and (2) stabilizing kinetic effects are not captured explicitly.

The formation of interphases that might arise from possible electrochemical reactions involves atomic rearrangements and volume changes compared with pristine materials 84 . Changes of the chemical environment and strain evolution can affect the connectivity and contact between different phases and are therefore the origin of the challenge in maintaining physical contact, explored in the following mechanics section.

## Mechanics

The mechanical properties of the solid electrolyte and associated interphases can affect the microstructural evolution of the battery and  consequently  its  performance.  Specifically,  loss  of  contact, fracture and/or inhomogeneous electrodeposition (Box 1) can be catastrophic and all depend on the response of the solid electrolyte matrix to the developed stresses. However, the relationship between the mechanical properties of solid electrolytes and the performance of the solid-state battery is still poorly understood.

The role of external pressure on the operation of solid-state batteries has been highlighted previously 2 and specialized pressure setups are routinely used to effectively operate solid-state batteries at the lab scale 97,104 . Zhang et al. have observed a significant evolution of cyclic stress together with the solid-state battery operation 13 . It is crucial to consider the solid-state battery as a solid composite and treat its micromechanics 105 ,  including its resilience to form cracks and the delamination of interfaces, as depicted in Fig. 6.

The tendency of the surfaces of two materials to keep together (or inversely the resistance to delaminate) is described by surface adhesion.  It  is  a  prime  example  of  the  electrochemomechanical coupling 105 that  is  crucial  in  solid-state  batteries  and  necessitates multidisciplinary understanding of the contributions from: (1) the chemical interfacial energy, γ xfc , corresponding to the difference in bonding and coordination at the interface compared with the bulk, (2)  mechanical  strain  originating  from  lattice  misfit  between  the contacted phases and (3) electrical attraction due to charge reorganization at the interface (shown in Fig. 4).

In the case of electrolyte decomposition in the presence of electrode materials, it remains challenging to identify the components participating in the adhesion of surfaces, and computational techniques  may  become  insightful.  The  importance  of  adhesion  has been qualitatively illustrated for the metal electrode/solid electrolyte interface by contact angle measurements of the liquid metal on the solid electrolyte, with treatments that improve the 'wettability' of the solid electrolyte correlating to lower interfacial resistance 106 ,  probably due to vastly increased surface contact area. Wang et al. demonstrated the direct correlation between the adhesion strength, σ adh , (pressure needed to delaminate) of a Li/Li 7 La3 Zr2 O12 interface to its interfacial resistance, thus showing the direct link between mechanical strength and effective ionic transport across interfaces 107 .

The  stress  developed  as  a  result  of  electrochemical  reactions at  the  electrodes  is  termed  electrochemical  strain, ε electrochemical ,  or electrochemical  shock.  As  the  mobile  ion  is  reversibly  inserted in  the  electrode  materials,  they  undergo  cyclical  expansions  and contractions. This phenomenon can result in localized stresses with

## Box 1 | Interfacial and electrodeposition issues for metal anodes in solid-state batteries

There are two main interlinked issues hindering the application of  metallic  anodes  (Li 0 ,  Na 0 and  Mg 0 )  in  batteries:  (1)  their  reducing  nature  that  leads  to  reaction  with  the  electrolyte,  which increases resistance during electrochemical cycling and (2) their tendency for inhomogeneous electrodeposition during charging that ultimately leads to device failure by short-circuit. For solidstate  batteries  to  supersede conventional liquid cells in terms of energy  density,  they  have  to  feature  a  metallic  anode 2 .  Despite expectations  to  the  contrary,  solid-state  systems  are  also  prone to  short-circuit  by  electrodeposition,  which  has  long  been  observed for Na in Naβ -Al 2 O3 (ref. 140 ) (and Ag in AgI and RbAg 4 I 5 (ref. 141 )). Recent experiments also confirm the problematic growth of Li through a range of solid electrolytes 12 . To curb these issues, alternative anodes, such as Li-In alloys, Li 4 Ti 5 O12 (ref. 13 ) and NaSn alloys 83 are typically utilized in current solid-state systems.

The manifestation of plating instabilities is intimately linked to the rate of electrodeposition with a critical current density typically utilized  as  the  most  accessible  descriptor  of  resistance  to  this failure mechanism. In most Li-based inorganic solid electrolytes, the critical current density never surpasses 0.3 mA cm -2 (of  real interfacial area) at room temperature, whereas for competitive Li metal batteries the target is 3-10 mA cm -2 (ref. 10 ).  Additionally, factors  including  the  (area  specific)  resistance  of  the  Li/solid electrolyte interface 106,142 , temperature 143 , electronic conductivity 137 , microstructure  and  surface  flaws 12 have  been  shown  to  affect the  anomalous  electrodeposition  of  Li  in  solid  electrolytes.  It  is becoming clear that there are distinct mechanistic differences from the growth of dendrites in liquid electrolytes 10 .  Solid-state setups often operate under applied pressure and are subjected to additional stresses developed during cycling. The metallic anode is thus under compressive stress of the order of megapascals, thus exceeding the yield strength of alkali metals (for example, ~0.8 MPa for Li (ref. 144 )). In  the  case  of  solid  polymer  electrolytes,  a  high  shear  modulus may  promote  stable  electrodeposition 145 .  However,  this  criterion has been shown not to apply for inorganic solid electrolytes both theoretically 146 and  by  demonstrations  of  metallic  Li  growth through various materials 12 , from  soft thiophosphate glasses ( E ≈ 20 GPa and G ≈ 7 GPa (ref. 108 )) to stiff monocrystalline oxide garnets ( E ≈ 150 GPa and G ≈ 60 GPa (ref. 147 )).

The exact failure mechanism related to problematic electrodeposition of Li in solid electrolytes is not yet fully understood. Most  recent studies support  a  mechanism  that proceeds in the following steps: (1) Li tends to nucleate preferentially  at  grain  boundaries,  and/or  voids.  This  is  typically ascribed  to  inhomogeneities  in  the  Li/solid  electrolyte  interface causing current hotspots (panel a in figure). This can be linked to the fabrication of the interface, including roughness, surface flaws, low adhesion or interphase formation and/or to inhomogeneous stripping  during  discharge.  The  current  density  concentrates  at the hotspots with the consequent development of highly localized pressure  and  overpotentials 143 .  The  molar  volume  of  Li  is  much higher in its metallic form than in any inorganic solid electrolyte 148 by a factor of ~10, causing extreme localized expansion and placing the  solid  electrolyte  under  stress.  (2)  Cracks  propagate  through grains, grain boundaries and/or voids and Li deposits inside them, eventually  short-circuiting  the  cell 149 (panel b in  figure).  This electrodeposition-induced  mechanical  failure  is  counterintuitive, given that metallic anodes typically have yield strengths that are orders of magnitude lower than those of the solid electrolytes 150 . Once  the  cell  is  short-circuited,  the  mode  of  charge  transfer switches to electronic, which has been reported to cause melting of Li via Joule heating 150 . Liquid Li tends to flow out from existing cracks and temporarily interrupt the short-circuit, therefore explaining the erratic voltage oscillations commonly observed in electroplating experiments 149,150 . Recently, it has also been proposed that electrons could penetrate the bulk of the solid electrolyte and cause direct nucleation of metallic Li away from the anode 137 .

Based  on  the  above  description,  several  design  principles for  the  stabilization  of  metal  electrodeposition  through  solid electrolytes  have  been  proposed.  With  respect  to  the  Li/solid electrolyte interface, surface treatments that improve the adhesion of  Li  to  solid  electrolytes,  quantified  through  wettability,  have been successfully implemented to lower the interfacial resistance and  thus  increase  the  critical  current  density 142 .  In  the  same vein,  mechanical  polishing 143 and  coating  thin  films  of  buffer layers 106 can also promote the adhesion and homogeneity of the interface.  Alternatively,  designing  electrolytes  with  respect  to their decomposition can also lead to stable, ionically conductive and electronically blocking interphases 151 . Microstructuring electrodes  to  increase  the  real  surface  area  helps  to  achieve higher critical  current  densities  per  footprint  area 120 .  It  has  also been  argued  that,  in  contrast  to  polymer  electrolytes,  inorganic solid electrolytes (or interphases) with lower shear modulus (for example, LiBH 4 with G ≈ 4 GPa (ref. 148 )) would be advantageous in maintaining homogeneous electrodeposition 146 . With respect to crack propagation, mechanical considerations would dictate the use of solid electrolytes with high fracture toughness by carefully controlling the microstructure, that is, grain size 55 , porosity, preexisting cracks 12 and pore connectivity 138 . In parallel, it was recently highlighted that more caution is warranted to minimize electronic conductivity  of  solid  electrolytes  as  the  key  to  stable  metallic electrodeposition 137 .  In  the  absence  of  a  complete  fundamental description  of  the  anomalies  of  metal  deposition  through  solid electrolytes,  it  is  currently  unclear  which  of  the  aforementioned factors  is  the  most  crucial  for  stable  electrodeposition  of  Li,  Na and/or Mg.

Inhomogeneous li deposition through solid electrolytes. a , Imperfect contact and interphase formation (brown) cause current hotspots.

- b , Preferential Li deposition in grain boundaries, voids and/ or within grains creates localized stress resulting in fracture. Li could be deposited directly in the bulk of solid electrolyte through electronic leakage if σ el ≠ 0.

Fig. 6 | Mechanical degradation of a solid-state battery. The mechanical properties (Young's and shear moduli, E and G , respectively, fracture toughness K Ic ) of the solid electrolyte (SE) and electrode (E) dictate the response of the system to the strain ( ε electrochemical ) during cycling. The adhesion of different solid phases in the composite can be quantified through the adhesion strength σ adh and interfacial energy γ xfc .

detrimental  consequences,  such  as  the  formation  of  fractures  and their propagation, delamination of interfaces and/or loss of contact between particles, as illustrated in Fig. 6. In such cases, voids are created adding up to the inactive volume of the battery, with direct consequences on performance. This phenomenon is in stark contrast to liquid-based systems where electrochemical strain results in hydrostatic pressure, which can be dissipated homogeneously, forcing the electrolyte to permeate any created voids and maintaining ionic contact. Furthermore, the negative and positive electrodes typically present unequal electrochemical strain, resulting in macroscopic pressure evolution  on  the  device  scale 14 .  The  magnitude  of  electrochemical strain  depends  largely  on  the  electrode  material  used  and  can  be negated by utilizing 'zero strain' electrodes, such as Li 4 Ti 5 O12 (ref. 13 ).

Material  deformation  under  stress,  including  electrochemical shock, is generally described by the Young's ( E ) and shear ( G ) elastic moduli. It has been proposed that soft materials with low moduli, such as sulfides, would be ideal as solid electrolytes, accommodating  applied  stresses  imposed  by  the  electrodes  during  reversible ion intercalation. However, it has been demonstrated that such soft materials (for example, lithium thiophosphate glasses), remain brittle and prone to fracture on stress 108 .

The resistance of solid materials to crack propagation is quantified by fracture toughness, K Ic , which is emerging as a determining factor  for  charting  the  performance  of  solid-state  batteries.  Bucci et  al.  modelled  the  effects  of  cycling-induced  fracture  in  a  solidstate battery, namely increased impedance and capacity loss 109 . They proposed that high fracture toughness, typically exhibited by dense oxides, is beneficial to avoid the creation and propagation of fractures on electrochemical shock. Unlike the elastic moduli, fracture toughness  is  heavily  dependent  on  microstructural  parameters, such as densification, grain size, impurities and the occurrence of pre-existing cracks and porosity.

Despite  the  dependence  of  solid-state  battery  performance  on mechanical  properties,  such  characterization  of  solid  electrolyte materials  is  not  commonplace.  Density  functional  theory  calculations  can  provide  estimations  for  the  elastic  moduli  of  pristine materials, whose atomic structures are known 110 . However, the fracture toughness greatly depends on the microstructure and will need to be determined experimentally 55 . The microstructure is a function of the processing route used for the synthesis of the solid electrolyte material and its integration in a solid-state battery, which is the subject of the following section on processing.

## Processing routes

The choice of processing route directly controls the electrical, chemical  and  mechanical properties of materials and devices, and also determines their potential for scale-up. A solid electrolyte needs to be first synthesized from commercially available reagents, densified into a thin format to minimize ohmic resistance, and finally integrated into a solid-state battery through intimate mixing with the electrode materials, as presented in Fig. 7.

Synthesis. The most direct route to synthesize solid inorganic materials  has  been  solid-state  synthesis,  meaning  the  'shake  and  bake' mixing and annealing of dry powders. Although this strategy has proven  successful  in  laboratories,  solid-state  routes  often  require high temperature, and consequently large energy consumption. In addition, the evaporation of volatile components (for example, Li 2O or Li 2 S/S) complicates the accurate control of composition and often necessitates the use of additional sacrificial reagents, for example, refs. 29,55 .  Furthermore,  the  increased  temperature  often  leads  to reactivity with the reaction vessel 111,112 .

Soft chemistry involves wet processing of reagents in the presence  of  a  liquid  solvent;  initially  utilized  as  a  way  to  control  the microstructure  of  oxide  solid  electrolytes  in  conjunction  with consequent  high-temperature  annealing.  Recently,  soft  chemical approaches have been emerging as a standalone way to produce sulfide solid electrolytes at lower temperatures 48,56 .  The lower energy requirement is an advantage for scalability and, depending on the solvent, such routes can be safe and sustainable. Nevertheless, careful manipulation and recycling of the solvent would be required. A high control over the purity and reproducibility can be ensured and soft chemistry methods have been employed to create completely new  microstructures  of  known  solid  electrolytes  with  improved ionic transport 48,56 .

Another  successful  approach  in  producing  amorphous  and glass-ceramic materials with superior properties is mechanochemical synthesis (typically ball milling) that relies on the high energy impact between solid particles 57 . Mechanochemical routes can sustain reactions at low temperatures, such as in the case of Li 6 PS5 Cl (ref. 113 )  or  cause  nucleation of metastable phases, such as for the cubic-Na 3 PS4 (ref. 114 ). Although highly successful and practical on the lab scale, correlations between synthesis parameters and resulting  products  still  remain  empirical.  Even  though  ball  milling  is already used industrially, its scalability  with  respect  to  safety  and energy consumption remains debated. The main concerns originate from the sensitivity of resulting solid electrolytes to the mechanochemical parameters, such as weight ratios, media and speeds for ball milling and consequently limited reproducibility.

Overall, there is an empirical link between high ionic conductivity and metastability as quantified by positive calculated formation energies and challenging synthesis, for example, for Li 10 GeP2S12 and its silicon analogue Li 11 Si 2 PS12 (ref. 115 ). High Li mobility often seems to come at the expense of stability. Nevertheless, all three main synthesis routes (solid-state, soft chemistry and mechanochemical) can potentially access such 'metastable' phases. In particular, solid-state routes can include a quenching step during which a high-temperature atomic configuration is 'frozen' . In mechanochemical routes, the high kinetic energy imparted on impact is quickly dissipated by the particles, which intrinsically mimics the conditions of quenching.  Finally,  solution  methods  offer  considerable  control  over  the particle  morphology  in  the  form  of  solvent-product  interactions and can bring surface effects into play to similarly produce metastable phases 48 .

Densification. Solid electrolyte powders, regardless of the synthesis method, need to be further processed into high-aspect-ratio membranes or pellets. High densification can be achieved through firing of green bodies (sintering) and cold or hot pressing of dry powders,

Fig. 7 | Simplified flowchart of available methods for the processing of solid electrolytes for solid-state batteries. From powder reagents to solid-

state batteries, the solid electrolyte needs to be synthesized, densified and integrated into the device. These steps can utilize interchangeably either dry (blue) and/or wet (green) processing approaches. Auxiliary methods (yellow) such as mechanochemistry and spark-plasma sintering can also be utilized in specific parts of the process flow. a For example, sol-gel 70 , spray drying 95 , dip coating 122 and so on. b For example, tape casting, screen printing and so on 139 .

to  achieve  the  desired  microstructure 55,116 .  Softer  materials  such  as sulfides and borohydrides might have a relative advantage against the typically refractory oxides due to their ability to be densified at low (even ambient) temperatures. The method of reference is spark plasma sintering, which enables precise control of the microstructure allowing for model experiments to probe its effects on ion transport 51,117 . However, such processing is currently prohibitively costly, limiting its utilization to research and niche high-performance applications.

Integration. In  terms  of  complete  solid-state  battery  integration, thin-film methods are the only industrialized route for manufacturing solid-state microbatteries 4 .  Although thin-film methods boast great advantages in terms of minimal achievable thicknesses, high densification and excellent solid-solid contacts, their scalability for bulk solid-state batteries remains doubtful due to the costs involved. Fabrication of solid-state batteries by cold-pressing of dry components has been most popular at the lab scale but its applicability for scale up and hard oxide solid electrolytes is limited 118 .

As outlined in the ion transport section, designing the 3D electrode geometry is key to maximizing the solid electrolyte/electrode interfacial  area  of  ionic  contact  and  thus  minimizing  the  overall resistance  of  solid-state  cells.  Mesostructured  and  interdigitated designs  have  been  explored  for  decades  for  microbatteries 119 .  For bulk  systems,  numerous  approaches  are  now  being  explored,  for example, fabricating porous, 'trilayer' solid electrolyte frameworks using sacrificial porogens 118,120 or  simply utilizing smaller cathode particles 76,121 . Despite advances, for high-current and high-capacity (thick electrode) applications, it is still the ionic conductivity within the  solid  electrolyte  and  across  the  electrolyte/electrode  interface that is the main impediment to competitive bulk solid-state cells 8,76 .

Wet  (solvent-based)  methods  can  also  present  advantages  in terms  of  the  area  of  solid-solid  contact  in  a  solid-state  cell.  This stems  naturally  from  the  increased  wettability  of  a  liquid  onto  a solid, which is converted to active solid-solid interfaces on drying 73 . Indeed, most protective coatings for cathode materials are initiated from a liquid precursor, based on a volatile solvent, which is later evaporated 70,95 .  Apart  from  nanometric  coatings,  solid  electrolytes can be integrated in a solid-state battery directly from liquid suspensions or solutions, forming self-assembled films as shown for Li 3 PS4 from acetonitrile 122 .  Slurry  processing  can  ensure  good  mixing  of the various components of composite electrodes (solid electrolyte, active  material,  conductive  carbon,  binders)  as  demonstrated  for both sulfide 123 and oxide-based batteries 124 .  Such processing routes are closer to well-established process flow of Li-ion battery electrode manufacturing, in which composite sheet electrodes are infiltrated with a liquid electrolyte 73 .  It  was also shown to be possible to perform the synthesis and integration of a Li 7 P2 S8 I/LiNi 1/3 Mn1/3 Co1/3 O2 electrode  in  a  single-step  by  drying  a  solution  of  Li 2 S-P2 S5 -LiILiNi 1/3 Mn1/3 Co1/3 O2 reagents 125 .

An interesting approach that was demonstrated recently for the low-melting anti-perovskite Li 2 OHCl is melt casting, that is, the direct solidification of the solid electrolyte into the desired shape and thickness 126 .  In  analogy with soft chemistry, melt casting could promote intimate  solid-solid  ionic  contacts  but  its  application  is  limited  to solid electrolyte candidates forming stable melts at low temperatures.

Finally,  a  critical  parameter  for  the  complete  processing  chain is  the  ambient  stability  of  reagents  and  products,  which  dictates the  synthesis  environment required and consequently, the potential for scale-up. In particular, sulfides were thought to be intrinsically unstable in ambient humidity, releasing toxic H 2 S.  However, considerations  based  on  hard/soft-acid/base  concepts  have  led  to sulfide electrolytes that are air stable and even water-processable, an example being Na 3 SbS4 (ref. 127 ). Similarly, a number of oxide materials  (for  example,  Li 7 La3 Zr2 O12 and  LISICONs) are also prone to degradation in ambient conditions through hydration, protonation and/or CO2 capture, with the formation of carbonates 24,128 .

## Conclusions and future outlook

We  have  highlighted  recent  progress  in  the  fundamental  understanding of solid electrolytes that are relevant to solid-state battery applications. Key properties of solid electrolytes are addressed in the areas of multiscale ion transport, electrochemical and mechanical stabilities, and their reliance on the processing methods available. In many of these areas, deeper insights have been achieved through a close synergy between experimental and modelling techniques. In addition to the major issues covered in this Review, future studies are likely to encompass the following important areas.

Materials discovery. There will be continuing efforts to explore new compounds and structure types that support fast-ion conductivity. The  use  of  high-throughput  computational  techniques  together with experiments will help to identify new candidate compounds. As well as modifying known electrode materials that are successful in liquid-based batteries, we should explore novel electrode materials and protective coatings that are better suited to solid-state battery  application  including  electrode  materials  exhibiting  low  and isotropic volumetric expansion on cycling.

## NATURE MATERIALS

Materials and interfacial characterization. In addition to crystallographic studies of the average structure, there will be increasing use  of  atomic-scale  characterization  and  modelling  techniques  to probe  local  structures,  ion  conduction  mechanisms  and  interfacial  chemistry. Key interface issues include greater understanding of  grain  boundaries  and  electrolyte/electrode  interfacial  reactions and kinetics. Critical for the progress of solid-state devices will be the identification of self-passivating solid electrolytes forming stable  interfaces  with  the  electrodes  or  protective  coating  materials. Novel experimental approaches will need to be designed to monitor solid-state battery operation (preferably operando and in situ), with regard to probing interfacial reactions and pressure evolution.

Materials processing and device operation. There are still many strategies to explore to further optimize both new and conventional electrolyte  materials,  such  as  chemical  doping,  novel  synthesis/ processing routes and dense thin-film preparation. Technical challenges to be addressed include developing highly scalable routes for synthesis and tailoring mechanical properties for stable operation of solid-state devices. The definition of reproducible protocols setting standards in the synthesis of solid electrolytes and the assembly and cycling of solid-state batteries are crucial for the success of this technology.

Received: 31 October 2018; Accepted: 13 June 2019; Published online: 19 August 2019

## references

1. Placke, T., Kloepsch, R., Dühnen, S. &amp; Winter, M. Lithium ion, lithium metal, and alternative rechargeable battery technologies: the odyssey for high energy density. J. Solid State Electrochem. 21 , 1939-1964 (2017).
2. Janek, J. &amp; Zeier, W . G. A solid future for battery development. Nat. Energy 1 , 16141 (2016).
3. Inoue, T. &amp; Mukai, K. Are all-solid-state lithium-ion batteries really safe? Verification by differential scanning calorimetry with an all-inclusive microcell. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 9 , 1507-1515 (2017).
4. Li, J., Ma, C., Chi, M., Liang, C. &amp; Dudney, N. J. Solid electrolyte: the key for high-voltage lithium batteries. Adv. Energy Mater. 5 , 1401408 (2015).
5. Bartsch, T. et al. Gas evolution in all-solid-state battery cells. ACS Energy Lett. 3 , 2539-2543 (2018).
6. Luntz, A. C., Voss, J. &amp; Reuter, K. Interfacial challenges in solid-state li ion batteries. J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 6 , 4599-4604 (2015).
7. Kato, Y. et al. High-power all-solid-state batteries using sulfide superionic conductors. Nat. Energy 1 , 16030 (2016).
8. Kato, Y. et al. All-solid-state batteries with thick electrode configurations. J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 9 , 607-613 (2018).
9. Yoshima, K., Harada, Y. &amp; Takami, N. Thin hybrid electrolyte based on garnet-type lithium-ion conductor Li 7 La3 Zr2 O12 for 12 V-class bipolar batteries. J. Power Sources 302 , 283-290 (2016).
10. Albertus, P ., Babinec, S., Litzelman, S. &amp; Newman, A. Status and challenges in enabling the lithium metal electrode for high-energy and low-cost rechargeable batteries. Nat. Energy 3 , 16-21 (2018).
11. Bai, P ., Li, J., Brushett, F. R. &amp; Bazant, M. Z. Transition of lithium growth mechanisms in liquid electrolytes. Energy Environ. Sci. 9 , 3221-3229 (2016).
12. Porz, L. et al. Mechanism of lithium metal penetration through inorganic solid electrolytes. Adv. Energy Mater. 7 , 1701003 (2017).
13. Zhang, W. et al. (Electro)chemical expansion during cycling: monitoring the pressure changes in operating solid-state lithium batteries. J. Mater. Chem. A 5 , 9929-9936 (2017).
14. Koerver, R. et al. Chemo-mechanical expansion of lithium electrode materials - on the route to mechanically optimized all-solid-state batteries. Energy Environ. Sci. 11 , 2142-2158 (2018).
15. Koerver, R. et al. Capacity fade in solid-state batteries: interphase formation and chemomechanical processes in nickel-rich layered oxide cathodes and lithium thiophosphate solid electrolytes. Chem. Mater. 29 , 5574-5582 (2017).
16. Bucci, G., Talamini, B., Renuka Balakrishna, A., Chiang, Y.-M. &amp; Carter, W . C. Mechanical instability of electrode-electrolyte interfaces in solid-state batteries. Phys. Rev. Mater. 2 , 105407 (2018).
17. Jansen, M. Volume effect or paddle-wheel mechanism - fast alkali-metal ionic conduction in solids with rotationally disordered complex anions. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 30 , 1547-1558 (1991).
18. Wang, Y. et al. Design principles for solid-state lithium superionic conductors. Nat. Mater. 14 , 1026-1031 (2015).

## REVIEW AR TICLE

19. Le Van-Jodin, L., Ducroquet, F., Sabary, F. &amp; Chevalier, I. Dielectric properties, conductivity and Li + ion motion in LiPON thin films. Solid State Ion. 253 , 151-156 (2013).
20. Zhu, Z., Chu, I.-H., Deng, Z. &amp; Ong, S. P . Role of Na + interstitials and dopants in enhancing the Na + conductivity of the cubic Na 3 PS4 superionic conductor. Chem. Mater. 27 , 8318-8325 (2015).
21. De Klerk, N. J. J. &amp; Wagemaker, M. Diffusion mechanism of the sodiumion solid electrolyte Na 3 PS4 and potential improvements of halogen doping. Chem. Mater. 28 , 3122-3130 (2016).
22. Tanibata, N., Noi, K., Hayashi, A. &amp; Tatsumisago, M. Preparation and characterization of highly sodium ion conducting Na 3 PS4 -Na4SiS 4 solid electrolytes. RSC Adv. 4 , 17120-17123 (2014).
23. Chu, I.-H. et al. Room-temperature all-solid-state rechargeable sodiumion batteries with a Cl-doped Na 3 PS4 superionic conductor. Sci. Rep. 6 , 33733 (2016).
24. Deng, Y. et al. Structural and mechanistic insights into fast lithium-ion conduction in Li 4 SiO4 -Li 3 PO4 solid electrolytes. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 137 , 9136-9145 (2015).
25. Deng, Y. et al. Enhancing the lithium ion conductivity in lithium superionic conductor (LISICON) solid electrolytes through a mixed polyanion effect. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 9 , 7050-7058 (2017).
26. He, X., Zhu, Y. &amp; Mo, Y. Origin of fast ion diffusion in super-ionic conductors. Nat. Commun. 8 , 15893 (2017).
27. Burbano, M., Carlier, D., Boucher, F., Morgan, B. J. &amp; Salanne, M. Sparse cyclic excitations explain the low ionic conductivity of stoichiometric Li 7 La3 Zr2 O12 . Phys. Rev. Lett. 116 , 135901 (2016).
28. Kanno, R. &amp; Murayama, M. Lithium ionic conductor thio-LISICON: the Li 2 S-GeS2 -P 2 S5 system. J. Electrochem. Soc. 148 , A742-A746 (2001).
29. Kraft, M. A. et al. Influence of lattice polarizability on the ionic conductivity in the lithium superionic argyrodites Li 6 PS5 X (X = Cl, Br, I). J. Am. Chem. Soc. 139 , 10909-10918 (2017).
30. Krauskopf, T. et al. Comparing the descriptors for investigating the influence of lattice dynamics on ionic transport using the superionic conductor Na 3 PS4x Se x . J. Am. Chem. Soc. 140 , 14464-14473 (2018).
31. Muy, S. et al. Tuning mobility and stability of lithium ion conductors based on lattice dynamics. Energy Environ. Sci. 11 , 850-859 (2018).
32. Adams, S. &amp; Prasada Rao, R. Structural requirements for fast lithium ion migration in Li 10 GeP2S12 . J. Mater. Chem. 22 , 7687-7691 (2012).
33. Fang, H. &amp; Jena, P . Li-rich antiperovskite superionic conductors based on cluster ions. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 114 , 11046-11051 (2017).
34. Dawson, J. A. et al. Elucidating lithium-ion and proton dynamics in anti-perovskite solid electrolytes. Energy Environ. Sci. 11 , 2993-3002 (2018).
35. Tang, W. S. et al. Unparalleled lithium and sodium superionic conduction in solid electrolytes with large monovalent cage-like anions. Energy Environ. Sci. 8 , 3637-3645 (2015).
36. Dimitrievska, M. et al. Carbon incorporation and anion dynamics as synergistic drivers for ultrafast diffusion in superionic LiCB 11 H12 and NaCB11H12. Adv. Energy Mater. 8 , 1703422 (2018).
37. Pecher, O., Carretero-González, J., Griffith, K. J. &amp; Grey, C. P . Materials' methods: NMR in battery research. Chem. Mater. 29 , 213-242 (2017).
38. He, X., Zhu, Y., Epstein, A. &amp; Mo, Y. Statistical variances of diffusional properties from ab initio molecular dynamics simulations. npj Comput. Mater. 4 , 18 (2018).
39. Marcolongo, A. &amp; Marzari, N. Ionic correlations and failure of NernstEinstein relation in solid-state electrolytes. Phys. Rev. Mater. 1 , 025402 (2017).
40. Chandra, A., Bhatt, A. &amp; Chandra, A. Ion conduction in superionic glassy electrolytes: an overview. J. Mater. Sci. Technol. 29 , 193-208 (2013).
41. Bunde, A., Funke, K. &amp; Ingram, M. D. Ionic glasses: history and challenges. Solid State Ion. 105 , 1-13 (1998).
42. Billinge, S. J. L. &amp; Kanatzidis, M. G. Beyond crystallography: the study of disorder, nanocrystallinity and crystallographically challenged materials with pair distribution functions. Chem. Commun. 2004 , 749-760 (2004).
43. Mori, K. et al. Structural origin of massive improvement in Li-ion conductivity on transition from (Li 2 S) 5 (GeS2 )(P 2 S5 ) glass to Li 10 GeP2S12 crystal. Solid State Ion. 301 , 163-169 (2017).
44. Adams, S. &amp; Swenson, J. Bond valence analysis of reverse Monte Carlo produced structural models; a way to understand ion conduction in glasses. J. Phys. Condens. Matter. 17 , S87-S101 (2005).
45. Dietrich, C. et al. Lithium ion conductivity in Li 2 S-P2 S5 glasses building units and local structure evolution during the crystallization of superionic conductors Li 3 PS4 ,  Li 7 P3 S11 and Li 4 P2 S7 . J. Mater. Chem. A 5 , 18111-18119 (2017).
46. Lacivita, V . et al. Resolving the amorphous structure of lithium phosphorus oxynitride (LiPON). J. Am. Chem. Soc. 140 , 11029-11038 (2018).
47. Li, W., Ando, Y., Minamitani, E. &amp; Watanabe, S. Study of Li atom diffusion in amorphous Li 3 PO4 with neural network potential. J. Chem. Phys. 147 , 214106 (2017).
48. Liu, Z. et al. Anomalous high ionic conductivity of nanoporous β -Li 3 PS4 . J. Am. Chem. Soc. 135 , 975-978 (2013).

## REVIEW AR TICLE

49. Tsukasaki, H., Mori, S., Morimoto, H., Hayashi, A. &amp; Tatsumisago, M. Direct observation of a non-crystalline state of Li 2 S-P2 S5 solid electrolytes. Sci. Rep. 7 , 4142 (2017).
50. Breuer, S., Uitz, M. &amp; Wilkening, H. M. R. Rapid Li ion dynamics in the interfacial regions of nanocrystalline solids. J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 9 , 2093-2097 (2018).
51. Wu, J.-F. &amp; Guo, X. Origin of the low grain boundary conductivity in lithium ion conducting perovskites: Li 3 x La0.67 -x TiO3. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 19 , 5880-5887 (2017).
52. Dawson, J. A., Canepa, P ., Famprikis, T., Masquelier, C. &amp; Islam, M. S. Atomic-scale influence of grain boundaries on Li-ion conduction in solid electrolytes for all-solid-state batteries. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 140 , 362-368 (2018).
53. Ma, C. et al. Atomic-scale origin of the large grain-boundary resistance in perovskite Li-ion-conducting solid electrolytes. Energy Environ. Sci. 7 , 1638-1642 (2014).
54. Ganapathy, S., Yu, C., van Eck, E. R. H. &amp; Wagemaker, M. Peeking across grain boundaries in a solid-state ionic conductor. ACS Energy Lett. 4 , 1092-1097 (2019).
55. Kim, Y. et al. The effect of relative density on the mechanical properties of hot-pressed cubic Li 7 La3 Zr2 O12 . J. Am. Ceram. Soc. 99 , 1367-1374 (2016).
56. Kudu, Ö. U. et al. A review of structural properties and synthesis methods of solid electrolyte materials in the Li 2S -P2 S5 binary system. J. Power Sources 407 , 31-43 (2018).
57. Hayashi, A., Hama, S., Morimoto, H., Tatsumisago, M. &amp; Minami, T. Preparation of Li 2 S-P2 S5 amorphous solid electrolytes by mechanical milling. J. Am. Ceram. Soc. 84 , 477-479 (2004).
58. Sakuda, A., Hayashi, A. &amp; Tatsumisago, M. Sulfide solid electrolyte with favorable mechanical property for all-solid-state lithium battery. Sci. Rep. 3 , 2261 (2013).
59. Duchardt, M., Ruschewitz, U., Adams, S., Dehnen, S. &amp; Roling, B. Vacancy-controlled Na + superion conduction in Na 11 Sn2 PS12 . Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 57 , 1351-1355 (2018).
60. Zhang, Z. et al. Na 11 Sn2 PS12 : a new solid state sodium superionic conductor. Energy Environ. Sci. 11 , 87-93 (2018).
61. Canepa, P. et al. High magnesium mobility in ternary spinel chalcogenides. Nat. Commun. 8 , 1759 (2017).
62. Bachman, J. C. et al. Inorganic solid-state electrolytes for lithium batteries: mechanisms and properties governing ion conduction. Chem. Rev. 116 , 140-162 (2016).
63. Zhang, Z. et al. New horizons for inorganic solid state ion conductors. Energy Environ. Sci. 11 , 1945-1976 (2018).
64. Auvergniot, J. et al. Interface stability of argyrodite Li 6 PS5 Cl toward LiCoO 2 , LiNi 1/3 Co1/3 Mn1/3 O2, and LiMn 2 O4 in bulk all-solid-state batteries. Chem. Mater. 29 , 3883-3890 (2017).
65. Richards, W. D., Miara, L. J., Wang, Y., Kim, J. C. &amp; Ceder, G. Interface stability in solid-state batteries. Chem. Mater. 28 , 266-273 (2016).
66. Sakuda, A., Hayashi, A. &amp; Tatsumisago, M. Interfacial observation between LiCoO2 electrode and Li 2S -P2 S5 solid electrolytes of all-solid-state lithium secondary batteries using transmission electron microscopy. Chem. Mater. 22 , 949-956 (2010).
67. Yu, C. et al. Accessing the bottleneck in all-solid state batteries, lithium-ion transport over the solid-electrolyte-electrode interface. Nat. Commun. 8 , 1086 (2017).
68. Bielefeld, A., Weber, D. A. &amp; Janek, J. Microstructural modeling of composite cathodes for all-solid-state batteries. J. Phys. Chem. C 123 , 1626-1634 (2019).
69. Bron, P., Roling, B. &amp; Dehnen, S. Impedance characterization reveals mixed conducting interphases between sulfidic superionic conductors and lithium metal electrodes. J. Power Sources 352 , 127-134 (2017).
70. Zhang, W. et al. Interfacial processes and influence of composite cathode microstructure controlling the performance of all-solid-state lithium batteries. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 9 , 17835-17845 (2017).
71. Wenzel, S., Sedlmaier, S. J., Dietrich, C., Zeier, W . G. &amp; Janek, J. Interfacial reactivity and interphase growth of argyrodite solid electrolytes at lithium metal electrodes. Solid State Ion. 318 , 102-112 (2018).
72. Nam, Y. J., Oh, D. Y., Jung, S. H. &amp; Jung, Y. S. Toward practical all-solidstate lithium-ion batteries with high energy density and safety: comparative study for electrodes fabricated by dry- and slurry-mixing processes. J. Power Sources 375 , 93-101 (2018).
73. Kim, D. H. et al. Infiltration of solution-processable solid electrolytes into conventional Li-ion-battery electrodes for all-solid-state Li-ion batteries. Nano Lett. 17 , 3013-3020 (2017).
74. Braun, P., Uhlmann, C., Weiss, M., Weber, A. &amp; Ivers-Tiffée, E. Assessment of all-solid-state lithium-ion batteries. J. Power Sources 393 , 119-127 (2018).
75. Froboese, L., van der Sichel, J. F., Loellhoeffel, T., Helmers, L. &amp; Kwade, A. Effect of microstructure on the ionic conductivity of an all solid-state battery electrode. J. Electrochem. Soc. 166 , A318-A328 (2019).
76. Strauss, F. et al. Impact of cathode material particle size on the capacity of bulk-type all-solid-state batteries. ACS Energy Lett. 3 , 992-996 (2018).

## NATURE MATERIALS

77. Haruyama, J., Sodeyama, K., Han, L., Takada, K. &amp; Tateyama, Y. Spacecharge layer effect at interface between oxide cathode and sulfide electrolyte in all-solid-state lithium-ion battery. Chem. Mater. 26 , 4248-4255 (2014).
78. de Klerk, N. J. J. &amp; Wagemaker, M. Space-charge layers in all-solid-state batteries; important or negligible? ACS Appl. Energy Mater. 1 , 5609-5618 (2018).
79. Sang, L., Haasch, R. T., Gewirth, A. A. &amp; Nuzzo, R. G. Evolution at the solid electrolyte/gold electrode interface during lithium deposition and stripping. Chem. Mater. 29 , 3029-3037 (2017).
80. Zhu, Y., He, X. &amp; Mo, Y. Origin of outstanding stability in the lithium solid electrolyte materials: insights from thermodynamic analyses based on first-principles calculations. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 7 , 23685-23693 (2015).
81. Swamy, T., Chen, X. &amp; Chiang, Y.-M. Electrochemical redox behavior of li ion conducting sulfide solid electrolytes. Chem. Mater. 31 , 707-713 (2019).
82. Han, F., Gao, T., Zhu, Y., Gaskell, K. J. &amp; Wang, C. A battery made from a single material. Adv. Mater. 27 , 3473-3483 (2015).
83. Tian, Y. et al. Compatibility issues between electrodes and electrolytes in solid-state batteries. Energy Environ. Sci. 10 , 1150-1166 (2017).
84. Tang, H. et al. Probing solid-solid interfacial reactions in all-solid-state sodium-ion batteries with first-principles calculations. Chem. Mater. 30 , 163-173 (2018).
85. Chen, T., Ceder, G., Sai Gautam, G. &amp; Canepa, P . Evaluation of Mg compounds as coating materials in Mg batteries. Front. Chem. 7 , 1-10 (2019).
86. Maier, J. in Handbook of Solid State Chemistry (eds Dronskowski, R., Kikkawa, S. &amp; Stein, A.) 665-701 (Wiley, 2017).
87. Lu, Z. &amp; Ciucci, F. Metal borohydrides as electrolytes for solid-state Li, Na, Mg, and Ca batteries: a first-principles study. Chem. Mater. 29 , 9308-9319 (2017).
88. Hartmann, P. et al. Degradation of NASICON-type materials in contact with lithium metal: formation of mixed conducting interphases (MCI) on solid electrolytes. J. Phys. Chem. C 117 , 21064-21074 (2013).
89. Wenzel, S. et al. Direct observation of the interfacial instability of the fast ionic conductor Li 10 GeP2S12 at the lithium metal anode. Chem. Mater. 28 , 2400-2407 (2016).
90. Sakuma, M., Suzuki, K., Hirayama, M. &amp; Kanno, R. Reactions at the electrode/electrolyte interface of all-solid-state lithium batteries incorporating Li-M (M = Sn, Si) alloy electrodes and sulfide-based solid electrolytes. Solid State Ion. 285 , 101-105 (2016).
91. Wenzel, S. et al. Interfacial reactivity benchmarking of the sodium ion conductors Na 3 PS4 and sodium β -alumina for protected sodium metal anodes and sodium all-solid-state batteries. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 8 , 28216-28224 (2016).
92. Ma, C. et al. Interfacial stability of Li metal-solid electrolyte elucidated via in situ electron microscopy. Nano Lett. 16 , 7030-7036 (2016).
93. Rettenwander, D. et al. Interface instability of Fe-stabilized Li 7 La3 Zr2 O12 versus Li metal. J. Phys. Chem. C 122 , 3780-3785 (2018).
94. Schwöbel, A., Hausbrand, R. &amp; Jaegermann, W. Interface reactions between LiPON and lithium studied by in-situ X-ray photoemission. Solid State Ion. 273 , 51-54 (2015).
95. Ohta, N. et al. Enhancement of the high-rate capability of solid-state lithium batteries by nanoscale interfacial modification. Adv. Mater. 18 , 2226-2229 (2006).
96. Jung, S. H. et al. Li 3 BO3-Li2 CO3: rationally designed buffering phase for sulfide all-solid-state Li-ion batteries. Chem. Mater. 30 , 8190-8200 (2018).
97. Koerver, R. et al. Redox-active cathode interphases in solid-state batteries. J. Mater. Chem. A 5 , 22750-22760 (2017).
98. Shin, B. R. et al. Comparative Study of TiS 2 /Li-In all-solid-state lithium batteries using glass-ceramic Li 3 PS4 and Li 10 GeP2S12 solid electrolytes. Electrochim. Acta 146 , 395-402 (2014).
99. Hakari, T. et al. Structural and electronic-state changes of a sulfide solid electrolyte during the Li deinsertion-insertion processes. Chem. Mater. 29 , 4768-4774 (2017).
100.  Schafzahl, L. et al. Long-chain Li and Na alkyl carbonates as solid electrolyte interphase components: structure, ion transport, and mechanical properties. Chem. Mater. 30 , 3338-3345 (2018).
101.  Dietrich, C. et al. Spectroscopic characterization of lithium thiophosphates by XPS and XAS - a model to help monitor interfacial reactions in all-solid-state batteries. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 20 , 20088-20095 (2018).
102.  Lorger, S., Usiskin, R. E. &amp; Maier, J. Transport and charge carrier chemistry in lithium sulfide. Adv. Funct. Mater. 29 , 1807688 (2018).
103.  Zhu, Y., He, X. &amp; Mo, Y. First principles study on electrochemical and chemical stability of solid electrolyte-electrode interfaces in all-solid-state Li-ion batteries. J. Mater. Chem. A 4 , 3253-3266 (2016).
104. Wu, X., El Kazzi, M. &amp; Villevieille, C. Surface and morphological investigation of the electrode/electrolyte properties in an all-solid-state battery using a Li 2 S-P2 S5 solid electrolyte. J. Electroceram. 38 , 207-214 (2017).
105.  Zhao, Y. et al. A review on modeling of electro-chemo-mechanics in lithium-ion batteries. J. Power Sources 413 , 259-283 (2019).

## NATURE MATERIALS

106.  Han, X. et al. Negating interfacial impedance in garnet-based solid-state Li metal batteries. Nat. Mater. 16 , 572-579 (2016).
107.  Wang, M. &amp; Sakamoto, J. Correlating the interface resistance and surface adhesion of the Li metal-solid electrolyte interface. J. Power Sources 377 , 7-11 (2018).
108.  McGrogan, F. P. et al. Compliant yet brittle mechanical behavior of Li 2 S-P 2 S5 lithium-ion-conducting solid electrolyte. Adv. Energy Mater. 7 , 1602011 (2017).
109. Bucci, G., Swamy, T., Chiang, Y.-M. &amp; Carter, W . C. Modeling of internal mechanical failure of all-solid-state batteries during electrochemical cycling, and implications for battery design. J. Mater. Chem. A 5 , 19422-19430 (2017).
110.  Deng, Z., Wang, Z., Chu, I.-H., Luo, J. &amp; Ong, S. P . Elastic properties of alkali superionic conductor electrolytes from first principles calculations. J. Electrochem. Soc. 163 , A67-A74 (2016).
111.  Bo, S.-H., Wang, Y. &amp; Ceder, G. Structural and Na-ion conduction characteristics of Na 3PS x Se 4 -x . J. Mater. Chem. A 4 , 9044-9053 (2016).
112.  Geiger, C. A. et al. Crystal chemistry and stability of 'Li 7 La3 Zr2 O12 ' garnet: a fast lithium-ion conductor. Inorg. Chem. 50 , 1089-1097 (2011).
113.  Boulineau, S., Courty, M., Tarascon, J. M. &amp; Viallet, V. Mechanochemical synthesis of Li-argyrodite Li 6 PS5 X (X = Cl, Br, I) as sulfur-based solid electrolytes for all solid state batteries application. Solid State Ion. 221 , 1-5 (2012).
114.  Hayashi, A., Noi, K., Sakuda, A. &amp; Tatsumisago, M. Superionic glassceramic electrolytes for room-temperature rechargeable sodium batteries. Nat. Commun. 3 , 856 (2012).
115.  Kuhn, A. et al. A new ultrafast superionic Li-conductor: ion dynamics in Li 11 Si 2 PS12 and comparison with other tetragonal LGPS-type electrolytes. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 16 , 14669-14674 (2014).
116.  Yi, E., Wang, W ., Kieffer, J. &amp; Laine, R. M. Key parameters governing the densification of cubic-Li 7 La3 Zr2 O12 Li + conductors. J. Power Sources 352 , 156-164 (2017).
117.  Delaizir, G. et al. The stone age revisited: building a monolithic inorganic lithium-ion battery. Adv. Funct. Mater. 22 , 2140-2147 (2012).
118.  Schnell, J. et al. All-solid-state lithium-ion and lithium metal batteries - paving the way to large-scale production. J. Power Sources 382 , 160-175 (2018).
119.  Oudenhoven, J. F. M., Baggetto, L. &amp; Notten, P . H. L. All-solid-state lithium-ion microbatteries: a review of various three-dimensional concepts. Adv. Energy Mater. 1 , 10-33 (2011).
120.  Hitz, G. T. et al. High-rate lithium cycling in a scalable trilayer Li-garnetelectrolyte architecture. Mater. Today 22 , 50-57 (2019).
121.  Wang, D. et al. Mitigating the interfacial degradation in cathodes for high-performance oxide-based solid-state lithium batteries. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 11 , 4954-4961 (2019).
122.  Wang, H., Hood, Z. D., Xia, Y. &amp; Liang, C. Fabrication of ultrathin solid electrolyte membranes of β -Li 3 PS4 nanoflakes by evaporationinduced self-assembly for all-solid-state batteries. J. Mater. Chem. A 4 , 8091-8096 (2016).
123.  Ates, T., Keller, M., Kulisch, J., Adermann, T. &amp; Passerini, S. Development of an all-solid-state lithium battery by slurry-coating procedures using a sulfidic electrolyte. Energy Storage Mater. 17 , 204-210 (2018).
124.  Finsterbusch, M. et al. High Capacity garnet-based all-solid-state lithium batteries: fabrication and 3D-microstructure resolved modeling. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 10 , 22329-22339 (2018).
125.  Matsuda, R., Hirabara, E., Phuc, N. H. H., Muto, H. &amp; Matsuda, A. Composite cathode of NCM particles and Li 3 PS4 -LiI electrolytes prepared using the SEED method for all-solid-state lithium batteries. IOP Conf. Ser. Mater. Sci. Eng. 429 , 012033 (2018).
126.  Hood, Z. D., Wang, H., Samuthira Pandian, A., Keum, J. K. &amp; Liang, C. Li 2 OHCl crystalline electrolyte for stable metallic lithium anodes. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 138 , 1768-1771 (2016).
127.  Kim, T. W., Park, K. H., Choi, Y. E., Lee, J. Y. &amp; Jung, Y. S. Aqueoussolution synthesis of Na 3 SbS4 solid electrolytes for all-solid-state Na-ion batteries. J. Mater. Chem. A 6 , 840-844 (2018).
128.  Sharafi, A. et al. Impact of air exposure and surface chemistry on LiLi 7 La3 Zr2 O12 interfacial resistance. J. Mater. Chem. A 5 , 13475-13487 (2017).
129.  Groh, M. F. et al. Interface instability in LiFePO 4 -Li 3 + x P1-x Si x O4 all-solidstate batteries. Chem. Mater. 30 , 5886-5895 (2018).
130.  Wu, X., Villevieille, C., Novák, P . &amp; El Kazzi, M. Monitoring the chemical and electronic properties of electrolyte-electrode interfaces in all-solid-state batteries using operando X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 20 , 11123-11129 (2018).
131.  Chen, K. et al. Morphological effect on reaction distribution influenced by binder materials in composite electrodes for sheet-type all-solid-state lithium-ion batteries with the sulfide-based solid electrolyte. J. Phys. Chem. C 123 , 3292-3298 (2019).
132.  Park, K. et al. Electrochemical nature of the cathode interface for a solid-state lithium-ion battery: interface between LiCoO 2 and garnetLi 7 La3 Zr2 O12 . Chem. Mater. 28 , 8051-8059 (2016).

## REVIEW AR TICLE

133.  Walther, F. et al. Visualization of the interfacial decomposition of composite cathodes in argyrodite-based all-solid-state batteries using time-of-flight secondary-ion mass spectrometry. Chem. Mater. 31 , 3745-3755 (2019).
134.  Zhang, W. et al. Degradation mechanisms at the Li 10 GeP2S12 /LiCoO2 cathode interface in an all-solid-state lithium-ion battery. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 10 , 22226-22236 (2018).
135. Wang, C. et al. In situ neutron depth profiling of lithium metal-garnet interfaces for solid state batteries. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 139 , 14257-14264 (2017).
136.  Han, F. et al. High electronic conductivity as the origin of lithium dendrite formation within solid electrolytes. Nat. Energy 4 , 187-196 (2019).
137.  Shen, F., Dixit, M. B., Xiao, X. &amp; Hatzell, K. B. Effect of pore connectivity on Li dendrite propagation within LLZO electrolytes observed with synchrotron X-ray tomography. ACS Energy Lett. 3 , 1056-1061 (2018).
138.  Cheng, T., Merinov, B. V ., Morozov, S. &amp; Goddard, W . A. Quantum mechanics reactive dynamics study of solid Li-electrode/Li 6 PS5 Cl-electrolyte interface. ACS Energy Lett. 2 , 1454-1459 (2017).
139.  Schnell, J. et al. Prospects on production technologies and manufacturing cost of oxide-based all-solid-state lithium batteries. Energy Environ. Sci. 12 , 1818-1833 (2019).
140.  De Jonghe, L. C., Feldman, L. &amp; Millett, P . Some geometrical aspects of breakdown of sodium beta alumina. Mater. Res. Bull. 14 , 589-595 (1979).
141.  Scrosati, B. &amp; Butherus, A. D. Electrochemical Properties of RbAg 4 I 5 Solid Electrolyte. J. Electrochem. Soc. 119 , 128-133 (1972).
142.  Sharafi, A. et al. Surface chemistry mechanism of ultra-low interfacial resistance in the solid-state electrolyte Li 7 La3 Zr2 O12 . Chem. Mater. 29 , 7961-7968 (2017).
143.  Wang, M., Wolfenstine, J. B. &amp; Sakamoto, J. Temperature dependent flux balance of the Li/Li 7 La3 Zr2 O12 interface. Electrochim. Acta 296 , 842-847 (2019).
144.  Masias, A., Felten, N., Garcia-Mendez, R., Wolfenstine, J. &amp; Sakamoto, J. Elastic, plastic, and creep mechanical properties of lithium metal. J. Mater. Sci. 54 , 2585-2600 (2019).
145.  Monroe, C. &amp; Newman, J. The impact of elastic deformation on deposition kinetics at lithium/polymer interfaces. J. Electrochem. Soc. 152 , A396-A404 (2005).
146.  Ahmad, Z. &amp; Viswanathan, V. Stability of electrodeposition at solidsolid interfaces and implications for metal anodes. Phys. Rev. Lett. 119 , 056003 (2017).
147.  Yu, S. et al. Elastic properties of the solid electrolyte Li 7 La3 Zr2 O12 (LLZO). Chem. Mater. 28 , 197-206 (2016).
148.  Ahmad, Z., Xie, T., Maheshwari, C., Grossman, J. C. &amp; Viswanathan, V . Machine learning enabled computational screening of inorganic solid electrolytes for suppression of dendrite formation in lithium metal anodes. ACS Cent. Sci. 4 , 996-1006 (2018).
149.  Marbella, L. E. et al. 7 Li NMR chemical shift imaging to detect microstructural growth of lithium in all-solid-state batteries. Chem. Mater. 31 , 2762-2769 (2019).
150.  Manalastas, W. et al. Mechanical failure of garnet electrolytes during Li electrodeposition observed by in-operando microscopy. J. Power Sources 412 , 287-293 (2019).
151.  Han, F., Yue, J., Zhu, X. &amp; Wang, C. Suppressing Li dendrite formation in Li 2 S-P 2 S5 solid electrolyte by LiI incorporation. Adv. Energy Mater. 8 , 1703644 (2018).

## Acknowledgements

T.F. acknowledges the Alistore ERI (http://www.alistore.eu/) and CNRS for their financial support in the form of a joint PhD scholarship between Amiens (France) and Bath (UK). P.C. is grateful to the Ramsey Memorial Trust and the University of Bath for the provision of his Ramsey Fellowship. M.S.I. and J.A.D. gratefully acknowledge the EPSRC Programme Grant (EP/M009521/1). The authors are grateful to D. Efremidis for help with the graphical design for Fig. 1.

## Author contributions

T.F., P .C. and J.A.D. carried out the literature review and T.F. drafted the manuscript. All authors contributed to the analysis, discussion and revisions leading to the final version of the manuscript.

## Competing interests

The authors declare no competing interests.

## Additional information

Reprints and permissions information is available at www.nature.com/reprints.

Correspondence should be addressed to T.F., M.S.I. or C.M.

Publisher's note: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.

© Springer Nature Limited 2019