Full Length Article

## Analysis of elastic, plastic, and creep properties of sodium metal and implications for solid-state batteries

Michael J. Wang a , Jiun-Yeu Chang a , Je/uniFB00rey B. Wolfenstine c , Je/uniFB00 Sakamoto a , b , ∗

- a Department of Materials Science &amp; Engineering, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA
- b Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA
- c Solid Ionic Consulting, Seattle, WA 98115, USA

## a r t i c l e i n f o

Keywords: Sodium metal Mechanical properties Solid-state batteries

## 1. Introduction

With the ever-increasing demand for advanced energy storage solutions, rechargeable batteries utilizing alkali metal anodes continue to garner interest due to their high energy density in comparison to stateof-the-art anode materials. Due to the ubiquity of Li-based chemistries, Li metal has attracted signi/uniFB01cant attention to replace conventional graphite anodes due to its high theoretical capacity (3860 mAh g -1 , 2061 mAh cm -3 ) and strong reducing ability ( -3.04 V vs SHE) [1-3] . Meanwhile, interest in Na metal has also seen a signi/uniFB01cant resurgence in recent years due to its abundance compared to Li, while also exhibiting relatively high theoretical capacity (1166 mAh g -1 , 1129 mAh cm -3 ) and low redox potential ( -2.71 V vs SHE) [4-6] . However, widespread usage of both metals in rechargeable batteries has been limited largely due to the di/uniFB03culty in achieving homogeneous planar deposition, which can lead to accelerated degradation and capacity fade [1 , 6 , 7] . Solidstate batteries utilizing a ceramic electrolyte have the potential to circumvent these issues by mechanically constraining the electroplated metal, promoting uniform deposition of dense electrodeposits. This prevents the formation of 'dead ' Li/Na, therefore enabling high Coulombic e/uniFB03ciencies and long cycle lives. In the context of solid-state batteries in

## a b s t r a c t

Na metal has garnered attention as an anode because of its high speci/uniFB01c capacity, low potential and abundance compared to Li metal. With continued development of fast Na-ion conductors, solid-state Na metal batteries present a solution for low-cost batteries with high energy densities. However, many of the rate-limitations in solid-state batteries are hypothesized to relate to the physical properties of the metal anode, necessitating a better understanding of the mechanical behavior of alkali metals. In this study, various analyses were performed to gain insight into the mechanical properties of Na metal at room temperature. Tensile/compressive tests were performed on Na metal using a load-frame in an inert environment, demonstrating a yield strength between 0.19 and 0.28 MPa at a strain-rate of ~10 -3 s -1 . An elastic modulus of 4.6 GPa was measured using acoustic techniques. Because of its low melting temperature, deformation of Na is highly in/uniFB02uenced by creep. A stress exponent was measured to be 5.0, suggesting dislocation climb as the rate-controlling mechanism. Lastly, to better understand how the mechanical behavior will a/uniFB00ect performance, compression tests were performed on substrates germane to solid-state cells. The mechanical properties presented in this work may provide new insights in the design, modeling, and understanding of solid-state batteries utilizing alkali metal anodes.

particular, where the metal anode is compressed between a relatively rigid metal current collector ( E &gt; 128 GPa for Cu) and a relatively rigid ceramic electrolyte ( E &gt; ~150 GPa for typical oxides), the mechanical environment is drastically di/uniFB00erent from conventional batteries using liquid electrolytes. Furthermore, as the geometry and morphology of the metal anode evolves dynamically over the course of charging (electroplating) and discharging (stripping) the mechanics and deformation of the metal are strongly coupled with the electrochemical performance and behavior.

In particular, the mechanics and deformation of the alkali metal likely play an important role in governing the nucleation and propagation of metal /uniFB01laments upon metal plating and have shown to play an important role in maintaining low interfacial resistances at the metal/electrolyte interface upon metal stripping [8-11] . Unique to the plating reaction, metal /uniFB01laments have been widely observed to propagate through hard ceramic electrolytes under certain conditions and at current densities &gt; 1 mA/cm 2 at room temperature [12-16] . Due to the dependence on temperature of the critical current density (CCD) at which /uniFB01laments nucleate, it has been hypothesized that the deformation or /uniFB02ow of the electroplated metal out of a surface defect may determine the tendency for /uniFB01lament nucleation to occur [13 , 17 , 18] . Upon stripping

∗ Corresponding author at: Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA. E-mail address: je/uniFB00saka@umich.edu (J. Sakamoto).

Contents lists available at

ScienceDirect

## Materialia

journal

homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/mtla

of the metal anode, it has been shown in recent studies that insu/uniFB03cient di/uniFB00usion or deformation of the metal can result in contact loss at the metal/electrolyte interface which leads to catastrophic increases in cell resistance [8-11] . In both cases, it is clear that the mechanical properties of the metal anode play a major role in the stable cycling of the solid-state battery and therefore further understanding of the mechanics of Li and Na are necessary. This is especially true given their low melting temperatures (Li: 453 K, Na: 371 K) and high homologous temperatures ( T h = T / T m ; T h = 0.8 for Na and 0.66 for Li) at room temperature compared to most metals. At room temperature, the deformation of both Li and Na is highly in/uniFB02uenced by creep and strongly dependent on strainrate and temperature. Likewise, the strong in/uniFB02uence of di/uniFB00usion creep on the deformation of Li is also believed to rationalize the observed dependence of the mechanical properties of Li on length scale and aspect ratio [19-22] .

In recent years, several studies have characterized the mechanical properties of Li metal and provided a foundation for further understanding of the mechanics at the Li/electrolyte interface [18-27] , however, the mechanical properties of Na metal are not as well characterized. While the elastic constants of single crystal Na metal have been of interest for several decades, the plastic deformation behavior was not thoroughly described until the compression studies of Sargent and Ashby [28] . However, until just recently, few, if any, works have continued to experimentally study the deformation behavior of pure Na metal. Recently, Fincher et al. [29] published one of the /uniFB01rst modern experimental datasets reporting on several mechanical properties of Na metal using nanoindentation and bulk compressive methods. However, with the growing interest of Na metal batteries, continued characterization of the mechanical properties of polycrystalline Na using di/uniFB00erent methods and under conditions relevant to Na metal batteries is necessary. While molten Na anodes have been historically coupled with solid-state electrolytes, recent advancements in electrolyte processing has demonstrated the ability to fabricate Na metal/solid-electrolyte interfaces with low interfacial resistances at room temperature [11 , 14 , 30] . Furthermore, it has been demonstrated that the CCD (12 mA cm -2 ) of Na metal coupled with an oxide based electrolyte, Na/u1D6FD ''-alumina (NBA), is an order of magnitude higher than the measured CCD (~1 mA cm -2 ) of Li metal and an oxide based electrolyte, Li 7 La 3 Zr 2 O 12 (LLZO), under identical measurement conditions [12 , 14] . Given that the measurement conditions and surface treatments were nearly identical, and the mechanical and conduction (electronic and ionic) properties of the two oxides are similar, it is likely that the di/uniFB00erence in mechanical and diffusive properties of Li versus Na may be a determining factor in the nucleation and propagation of metal /uniFB01laments. Similarly, it was demonstrated that Na/NBA could withstand higher stripping current densities without catastrophic contact loss than Li/Li 6 PS 5 Cl under identical stack pressures and conditions [11] . These recent studies demonstrate notable di/uniFB00erence between Li and Na based cell chemistries and motivate the need for investigation into the mechanical properties of Na metal.

In this work, the mechanical properties of bulk Na metal are characterized in both tension and compression using a load-frame housed within an inert atmosphere. Through a combination of stress-strain behavior, an acoustic method, and time-dependent deformation, a number of measurements of the mechanical properties for bulk Na metal are presented, including the elastic constants, yield strength, and creep exponent. Overall, it was found that bulk Na metal behaves closely to bulk Li metal, exhibiting behavior dominated by plastic deformation, while exhibiting lower elastic moduli, lower yield strength, and lower creep strengths at the same strain rates. Additionally, the mechanical behavior of Na metal was analyzed when coupled with relevant substrates such as a current collector and NBA electrolyte. It was shown that the yield strength is increased due to the interfacial stresses on an NBA substrate, which is also used to demonstrate the stress/strain response of a Na foil to an applied stack pressure relevant to solid-state batteries. Ultimately, the results of this work provide an experimental dataset that may be used for continuum scale modeling and calculations. This may provide further insight on the morphological evolution at the interface of solid Na metal anodes and solid electrolytes and provide guidelines for optimal design of Na metal solid-state batteries.

## 2. Experimental

## 2.1. Materials

All sample preparation steps were performed inside an argon-/uniFB01lled glovebox with oxygen level controlled below 1 ppm. Two types of Na samples were prepared: rods and foils. Polycrystalline Na metal rods with average height 12.5 ± 2 mm and diameter 11.5 ± 1 mm were shaped from Na metal (99.9% metals basis) cubes (Sigma Aldrich #483745) stored in mineral oil. Na metal cubes (~15 mm) were /uniFB01rst washed in cyclohexane, and then were molded into the desired dimensions by impression molding using a custom polyethylene mold. The ends of the rods were cut with a razor blade to create /uniFB02at, parallel faces. Polycrystalline Na metal foils were made from a Na ingot (99.8% metals basis) (Alfa Aesar #10342). Small pieces of Na were cut from the Na ingot, the oxides on the surfaces were scraped o/uniFB00 with stainless steel spatulas, and then the Na was warm-rolled and punched into 1.5 ± 0.1 mm thick, 6.35 mm diameter Na foils. Because the processing of all Na metal samples is at room temperature, due to the high homologous temperature at room temperature ( T h = 0.8), it is believed that signi/uniFB01cant recrystallization will still occur, minimizing the variability due to di/uniFB00ering amounts of deformation. To reduce variability, after processing, all Na samples were allowed to 'anneal ' at room temperature ( T h = 0.8) for 24 h.

For studying the interfacial e/uniFB00ects of substrates on Na foil compression, Na/u1D6FD ''-alumina pellets and battery grade 35 µm Ni foil (Targray) were used. Na/u1D6FD ''-alumina were synthesized, densi/uniFB01ed, polished, and heat-treated at 900 °C to remove surface contaminants as described by Bay et al. [14] . Na/u1D6FD ''-alumina pellets with thickness 1.4 ± 0.3 mm and diameter 12 mm were polished to a /uniFB01nal surface /uniFB01nish using a 0.1 µm diamond paste to prevent the surface roughness from a/uniFB00ecting the interface friction.

## 2.2. Acoustic characterization

A pulse-echo acoustic method was utilized to determine the elastic constants of the Na metal rods according to ASTM E494-15 [31] . Shear and longitudinal transducers (Olympus M110-RM and Olympus V-156RM) were placed in contact with Na metal cubes of thicknesses between 2 and 6 mm inside an Ar /uniFB01lled glovebox and an Olympus 5073R Pulser/Receiver was used to generate ultrasonic pulses. High purity mineral oil was used as an acoustic couplant for longitudinal waves and a shear wave couplant (Olympus SWC-2) was used for shear waves. The wave speeds were calculated based on the individual sample thicknesses and the time in between acoustic peaks/echoes.

## 2.3. Stress-strain behavior

All stress-strain measurements were conducted by using a load frame - Instron 5944 contained in an argon-/uniFB01lled atmosphere ( &lt; 1.0 ppm O 2 ) at ambient temperature. After sample preparation, Na metal rods for tensile testing were /uniFB01xed in between two stainless steel rods, which were used as grips, by using an ethyl cyanoacrylate-based adhesive. Na metal rods for compression were mounted in between two stainless steel compression platens. Prior to mounting, the samples were lubricated with high purity mineral oil (Alfa Aesar) to minimize the friction between the Na surfaces and platen surfaces. Tensile and compression tests were conducted to determine the yield strength and elastic modulus of Na metals. Three measurements were conducted in tension and /uniFB01ve in compression. For comparison with Li metal, strain-rates of 1.22 × 10 -3 s -1 were used for both tension and compression tests, as reported by Masias et al. [23] . These strain-rates also satisfy the ASTM standard conditions

which recommend strain-rates between 1.15 and 11.5 MPa s -1 normalized by the elastic modulus [32 , 33] . The yield strength was determined based on the 0.2% o/uniFB00set method as well as based on the point at which linearity at low strains was lost. Loss of linearity was de/uniFB01ned by the point at which the R 2 value of the linear regression became less than 0.99. After /uniFB01nding the yield point, the elastic modulus was calculated from the slope up to that point.

## 2.4. Strain-rate dependent deformation

Tensile tests with varying strain-rates were performed using the identical setup and materials as previously described. A single measurement at four di/uniFB00erent tension strain-rates 1.22 × 10 -5 , 1.22 × 10 -4 , 1.22 × 10 -3 , and 1.22 × 10 -2 s -1 were used to investigate the strain-rate dependence of the Na deformation. These strain-rates were chosen on the same order of magnitude as the rates used by LePage et al. [18] for comparison with Li metal and Fincher et al. [29] with Na metal.

## 2.5. Tensile creep

Tension creep measurements were performed by holding a constant stress and observing the time-dependent strain response. The holding stress was reached by using a constant strain-rate of 1.0 × 10 -3 s -1 as suggested by Masias et al. [23] and held until failure. A single measurement at /uniFB01ve holding stresses 0.125, 0.15, 0.1625, 0.175, 0.200 MPa were measured. These stresses were selected to be below the yield strength measured from the tensile test results.

## 2.6. Compression stress-strain on varying substrates

To investigate how stack pressure and interfacial stresses a/uniFB00ect the deformation behavior of Na, compression tests were performed on three di/uniFB00erent substrates, which were oil-lubricated stainless steel, Ni current collector, and Na/u1D6FD ''-alumina. Five compression stress-strain tests were conducted with strain-rates of 1.22 × 10 -3 s -1 on each of the three substrate materials. Na foils were cut and cleaned immediately before each compression test to minimize the amount of oxides formed on the sample surfaces before placing the samples in between two symmetric substrates.

## 2.7. Deformation behavior under constant stress and constant extension

Time dependent constant stress/strain compression tests were conducted to simulate the deformation of Na metal anode in contact with a Ni current collector and solid-electrolyte under realistic stack pressures. The dimensions and preparation steps for Na/u1D6FD ''-alumina pellets and Na foils were identical to the previously described methods. The Na foils were placed in between a Na/u1D6FD ''-alumina pellet and a Ni current collector and loaded under one of two stack pressure schemes, with either constant pressure or constant extension. Under the /uniFB01rst scheme, a stack pressure of 3 MPa was reached with a constant strain-rate of 1.22 × 10 -3 s -1 and held for 48 h. Under the other scheme, a stack pressure of 3 MPa was reached at the same strain-rate, and then the extension was held constant and the stress was allowed to relax. The stack pressure of 3 MPa was used in both cases as a representative stack pressure based on current literature practices [12 , 14] .

## 3. Results and discussion

## 3.1. Acoustic

The elastic constants of Na metal were measured by an acoustic pulse-echo method at ambient temperature. Longitudinal and shear transducers were used to propagate acoustic waves through the Na metal and the time-of-/uniFB02ight of the resonance peaks were used to measure the speed of the waves. First, the Poisson ratio, /u1D708 , was measured based on

Table 1 Comparison of the elastic properties of Na metal versus Li metal.

|                                           | E (GPa)   | G (GPa)   |   K (GPa) |   /u1D708 |
|-------------------------------------------|-----------|-----------|-----------|-----------|
| Na metal (this work)                      | 4.6       | 1.7       |       8.5 |      0.41 |
| Na metal [29] Na metal [28] Li metal [23] | 3.9 7.82  | 1.5 2.83  |      11.1 |      0.38 |

the combination of shear and longitudinal wave speeds, given by the equation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Where V s is the shear wave speed and V l is the longitudinal wave speed. Then, the elastic modulus, E , and the shear modulus, G , can be calculated based on the equations:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where /u1D70C is the density (0.971 g cm -3 ). Assuming isotropic behavior, the bulk modulus, K , can also be determined by the equation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

From the measured wave speeds, the elastic constants were calculated to be 4.6 GPa, 1.7 GPa, and 8.5 GPa for the elastic, shear, and bulk moduli respectively, while the Poisson's ratio was 0.41 ( Table 1 ). Measurements were performed on samples ranging in thickness from 2 to 6 mm to ensure and con/uniFB01rm the independence of wave speed on sample geometry.

The elastic modulus of Na metal has been measured experimentally also by acoustic methods [34-38] , as well as by nanoindentation [29] . Based on the nanoindentation measurements done by Fincher et al. [29] , a value of 3.9 GPa was reported, which is consistent with the 4.6 GPa value measured in this work. Fincher et al. [29] also analyzes a range of literature values [35-38] which report the measured elastic constants for Na single crystals also using an acoustic pulse-echo method. Based on their analysis using the method by Hashin and Shtrikman [39] , the elastic modulus for a polycrystalline sample should be within the range of 4.5-7.9 GPa. The measured value of 4.6 GPa for polycrystalline Na in this work is also consistent with this analysis, but tend toward the lower end of the predicted range, similarly to the recent measurements by Fincher et al. [29] . As observed with the case with Li metal, it is to be expected that the experimentally measured polycrystalline values for elastic moduli will likely be lower than values calculated from /uniFB01rstprinciple methods using single crystal data [18 , 22 , 23 , 40] . According to the authors this is the /uniFB01rst study to measure the values for G and /u1D708 for polycrystalline Na. The measured shear modulus (1.7 GPa) is also consistent with the result from Sargent and Ashby [28] who calculated 1.5 GPa. The values of E, G and /u1D708 for polycrystalline Li are also listed in Table 1 . From Table 1 it is observed that the E and G values for Na are lower than those for Li. This is expected since it is known for a given class of materials (same structure and bonding) that the elastic modulus decreases with decreasing melting temperature [41] . Li with the higher melting temperature (Li: 453 K compared to Na: 371 K) exhibits the higher values for the modulus. It is expected that /u1D708 for the two materials should be higher for the lower melting material, which is observed (0.41 for Na versus 0.38 for Li).

## 3.2. Stress-strain behavior

The stress-strain behavior of Na metal in tension and compression, shown in Fig. 1 , were used to characterize the elastic and plastic behav-

Fig. 1. Stress-strain curves of bulk Na metal at room temperature under (a) tension and (b) compression at a strain-rate of 1.22 × 10 -3 s -1 . The yield strength measured at the point where linearity is lost (LL) and using the 0.2% o/uniFB00set method is highlighted.

Table 2 Comparison of the plastic properties of Na metal versus Li metal.

|                      | Methodology      | /u1D70E y (MPa) - ( ̇ /u1D700 ~ 10 - 3 )   | N     | m      |
|----------------------|------------------|--------------------------------------------|-------|--------|
| Na metal (this work) | Bulk tension     | 0.19-0.28                                  | 5.0   | 0.20   |
| Na metal (this work) | Bulk compression | 0.16-0.24                                  |       |        |
| Na metal [29]        | Nanoindentation  |                                            | 7.2 a | 0.14   |
| Na metal [29]        | Bulk compression | 0.17                                       | 5.0   | 0.2    |
| Na metal [28]        | Bulk compression |                                            | 5.0   | 0.2    |
| Li metal [23]        | Bulk tension     | 0.73-0.81                                  | 6.6   | 0.15 a |
| Li metal [18]        | Bulk tension     | ~0.75 a                                    | 6.6   | 0.15 a |
| Li metal [22]        | Bulk tension     | 0.71                                       | 6.6   | 0.15 a |
| Li metal [22]        | Nanoindentation  |                                            | 6.9   | 0.14 a |

a Indicates value calculated from reference data.

ior under a constant strain-rate. In tension, a linear response to loading was /uniFB01rst observed in the low strain region before transitioning to nonlinear plastic behavior. As described in the Experimental section, yield strength and elastic modulus were determined from this linear elastic region. At the point where loss of linearity was de/uniFB01ned, the elastic modulus was determined as 274 MPa from the slope of the linear region. It should be noted that the measured elastic modulus from the stressstrain curves are signi/uniFB01cantly (10 × ) lower than the elastic modulus measured from the acoustic methods. This was also observed by Masias et al. [23] for Li metal and is likely due to the signi/uniFB01cant contribution of creep to the stress-strain behavior even at low strains and therefore should be considered more as an 'e/uniFB00ective ' bulk-scale elastic modulus. Average values of yield strength de/uniFB01ned by 0.2% o/uniFB00set method as well as the point at which linearity was lost ( R 2 &lt; 0.99) are 0.28 MPa and 0.19 MPa ( Table 2 ) respectively. At higher strains (shown by the inset), the deformation of Na transitions from a linear regime to plastic /uniFB02ow without work hardening, which was also reported by Masias et al. and LePage et al. in measurements of Li metal [18 , 23] . Similar to Li metal, this indicates that at room temperature, owing to the low melting temperature of Na, rapid di/uniFB00usion occurs, resulting in mobile dislocations, thus preventing work hardening. Across all tension experiments performed, minimal variance was observed in terms of qualitative behavior, yield strength, and 'e/uniFB00ective ' elastic modulus.

Similar stress-strain behavior can also be observed under compression. Na metal exhibits a linear response in the low strain region, and eventually starts to undergo non-linear plastic /uniFB02ow. However, it was dif/uniFB01cult to clearly de/uniFB01ne yield strength from stress-strain curves in compression tests, because the elastic regions of resulting curves from all testing samples cover a large range rather than show consistency like in the tension tests. Based on /uniFB01ve di/uniFB00erent samples, the yield strength under compression lies within the range of 0.16 and 0.24 MPa ( Table 2 ). The high degree of variance may be due to misalignment of the sample faces against the compression platen as even small misalignments require observable amounts of strain to realign. However, since the Na metal is so soft, it is likely that small misalignments contribute negligibly to the stress response. In this case the variance is more likely impacted by interfacial forces, as will be discussed in the following sections. Unlike the tensile tests, after the linear regime, the stress continues to increase at a more gradual rate, rather than plateauing at a steady-state value. While this typically is indicative of work hardening, given the low melting temperature of Na, this is more likely due to the increasing e/uniFB00ects of friction as the contact area between the Na and the compression platens is increasing with increasing strain. Finally, at high strains, there is a dramatic increase in the stress, which is attributed to the increasing frictional forces with increasing aspect ratio, which prevents continued lateral /uniFB02ow of the material. This is similar to the behavior of Li metal [23] .

For comparison with the engineering stress-strain behavior, the true stress-strain curves were also calculated. Based on a comparison of the engineering stress-strain curve and true stress-strain curve, it is

Fig. 2. Tension engineering stress-strain behavior as a function of strain-rate at room temperature. (a) Bulk Na as a function of strain-rate. (b) Flow stress (measured at 5% strain) as a function of strain-rate.

found that the true stress initially /uniFB01t well with engineering stress in the low stress-strain region, but deviated from the engineering stress after around 3% strain both in tension and compression. For the higher strain region in tension, the increasing true stress results from the decreased area under the load caused by necking. On the other hand, the area gradually expanded under compression loading; hence, the true stress decreased at higher strains.

The /uniFB02ow stress measured at 8% strains for Na from Fincher et al. [29] at a similar strain-rate used in this study (~10 -3 s -1 ) is listed in Table 2 . From Table 2 it can be observed that results from this study indicate yield stresses of 0.19-0.28 MPa for tension and 0.16-0.24 for compression for polycrystalline Na. These values are in good agreement with the values of 0.17 MPa measured by Fincher et al. [29] under compression, although no other measurements for Na metal in tension currently exist. It should be noted that the yield stress for Li, shown in Table 2 , is higher than that for Na at room temperature as a result of lower homologous temperature.

## 3.3. Strain-rate dependent deformation

Because the homologous temperature of Na is 0.8 at room temperature, the stress-strain behavior at room temperature is highly dependent on the strain-rate due to the prominent e/uniFB00ects of creep-induced strain. Furthermore, as discussed in the literature [8 , 18] , the charging and discharging rate of the battery describes the rate of Na electroplating and stripping onto/from the metal anode. Since the plating and stripping processes result in a height change of the Na metal, this is e/uniFB00ectively analogous to a strain-rate. Because the Na metal must deform at higher strain-rates in order to charge and discharge the battery at higher current densities, understanding how the Na metal deforms as a function of strain-rate is critical to understanding how the Na metal behaves in a real battery under realistic operating conditions.

To better understand how a Na metal anode would respond under di/uniFB00erent cycling rates, the dependence of the stress-strain behavior on the applied strain-rate was investigated. It is shown in Fig. 2 , that the yield strength and /uniFB02ow stress increase with increasing strain-rate, indicating that the Na metal becomes stronger and more di/uniFB03cult to deform at higher strain-rates (and therefore, higher current densities). The 0.2% o/uniFB00set yield stress of the highest (1.22 × 10 -2 s -1 ) and lowest (1.22 × 10 -5 s -1 ) strain-rate tested are 0.36 and 0.15 MPa respectively, equivalent to a 140% increase in yield strength. At all of the rates used, no work hardening was observed, indicating that at these strain-rates, work-hardening is balanced by recovery. The engineering stress mea- sured at 5% strain in Fig. 2 (a) is plotted as a function of strain-rate in Fig. 2 (b). It can be seen that the /uniFB02ow stress /uniFB01ts a power-law model given by the equation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where m is the strain-rate sensitivity exponent and K is a coe/uniFB03cient, /uniFB01tting to values of m = 0.164 and K = 0.928 MPa s m respectively.

This phenomenon suggests that it may be more di/uniFB03cult for Na metal anodes to yield and /uniFB02ow at higher charge/discharge rates, which may have major implications in the morphological evolution of Nametal/solid-electrolyte interfaces. As suggested in the case of Li metal [12 , 13 , 18] , which exhibits the same behavior, this may make it more di/uniFB03cult for electroplated Na to /uniFB02ow away from the interface, resulting in pressure build up and electrolyte fracture. Similarly, this may make it di/uniFB03cult for the Na anode to maintain contact with the electrolyte under stack pressure when undergoing anodic dissolution. In this sense, both Li and Na metal exhibit behavior similar to a non-Newtonian /uniFB02uid, in which the viscosity is temperature and strain-rate dependent, which will ultimately a/uniFB00ect the pressure build-up (Poiseuille pressure) of plated Li and Na /uniFB02owing out of surface defects and the pressure needed to /uniFB02ow Li and Na into interface voids/porosity.

## 3.4. Time-dependent deformation

In order to evaluate the time-dependent plastic deformation behavior of Na metal, tension creep experiments were performed. Na metal has a low melting temperature ( T m = 371 K), which suggests that at room temperature ( T h = 0.80), Na metal will exhibit higher creep rates compared to Li ( T h = 0.66 at room temperature). Compression creep experiments were also attempted, but as described by Masias et al. [23] , the e/uniFB00ects of friction on the compression of Na rods lead to inhomogeneous deformation making it di/uniFB03cult to interpret the data. The strain-rate as a function of time is shown for 0.125 MPa and 0.2 MPa in Fig. 3 (a) and (b) respectively. From Fig. 3 (a) and (b) it is observed that upon initial holding of the constant load, Na metal undergoes a constant strain-rate where work-hardening is balanced by recovery. At the onset of necking, the strain-rate begins to rapidly increase as the reduction in area becomes increasingly signi/uniFB01cant and the sample eventually fractures. The steady-state strain-rate is plotted as a function of creep stress in Fig. 3 (c). The generalized creep equation is given by:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Where A is a constant, /u1D70E is the stress, and n is the stress exponent. Combining the data points from the constant load experiments and the con-

Fig. 3. Tension steady-state strain-rates of bulk Na (a) as a function of time at a holding stress of 0.125 MPa and (b) at a holding stress of 0.2 MPa. (c) The steady-state strain-rates of bulk Na as a function of holding stress, where the stress exponent is given by the slope of the best /uniFB01t line. The /uniFB01t line is compared to data from Fig. 2 , Refs. [28 , 29] , and data for Li metal from Ref. [18] ( ▴ ), 22 ( ◆ ), 23 ( · ), 42 ( ■ ), and 43 ( × ). Each point represents a single data point or the reported average from the particular reference. To our knowledge, all data is reported as engineering stress/strain except for Ref. [18] .

stant strain-rate experiments presented in Fig. 2 and /uniFB01tting the creep equation ( Eq. (6 )) provides values for the coe/uniFB03cient A and the stress exponent n , which are 0.53 MPa -n s -1 and 5.0 respectively. The data and the stress exponent, represented by the slope of the lines in Fig. 3 (c), is shown in comparison to an aggregate dataset for Li metal, taken from a number of reported values in the literature [18 , 22 , 23 , 42 , 43] . The constant stress compression data of Sargent and Ashby [28] and constant compression strain-rate data of Fincher et al. [29] for Na are also shown in Fig. 3 (c) along with the respective stress exponents and coe/uniFB03cients. Sargent and Ashby [28] measured a creep exponent of 5.0 for Na. Fincher et al. [29] , estimated a creep exponent of 5 from a measured strain-rate sensitivity exponent. The stress exponent measured in this work is in good agreement with both of these values. It should be noted that the best /uniFB01t value for the stress exponent ( n = 5.0) in this work is the best /uniFB01t value for the combined data set of constant load measurements and constant strain-rate measurements. When /uniFB01tting the power-law relation to each data set individually, the best /uniFB01t value for the stress exponent is 6.1 for both the constant load measurements and constant strain-rate measurements. This illustrates the highly sensitive nature of /uniFB01tting creep data. Therefore, while the stress exponent for the combined data is 5.0, which closely matches that of Fincher et al. [29] and Sargent and Ashby [28] , it is possible that the stress expo- nent may also lie within the range of 5.0 and 6.1. The di/uniFB00erences in the power-law coe/uniFB03cient and the creep rates between this work and those of Fincher et al. [29] and Sargent and Ashby [28] may be due to the di/uniFB00erences between tension and compression creep. Additionally, di/uniFB00erent interpretations of the steady-state /uniFB02ow stress may contribute to these di/uniFB00erences. For example, the stress from Fincher et al. [29] is taken at a strain of 8%. At this value of strain, it is unclear whether the testing Na metal was under steady-state /uniFB02ow. In addition, no creep curves from Sargent and Ashby [28] were shown to determine at what strains their value of stress was determined. Furthermore, the variation between the di/uniFB00erent studies could be a result in the di/uniFB00erence in the materials ranging from di/uniFB00erent impurity concentrations to di/uniFB00erent initial dislocation densities. Also shown in Fig. 3 (c) is creep data for polycrystalline Li [18 , 22 , 23 , 42 , 43] . It can be seen that the creep data for Li from the various studies are in good agreement in contrast to Na. All Li tests were conducted in tension and the values taken at true-steady state. As stated above, the Na data in Fig. 3 (c) is taken from di/uniFB00erent types of tests and may not all be at steady-state leading to a large variation in the data. Secondly, at room temperature Li is stronger than Na. For example, at a creep rate of 10 -3 s -1 Li ( /u1D70E ~ 0.75 MPa) is about 2.9 times stronger than Na ( /u1D70E ~ 0.26 MPa) for Na. As stated in the stress-strain section since they have the same structure at room temper-

ature the di/uniFB00erence in strength is most likely a result of the di/uniFB00erence in homologous temperature between the two metals. Li with the lower homologous temperature ( T / T m = 0.66) compared to Na ( T / T m = 0.80) exhibits the higher strength. The value of the stress exponent gives an indication of the rate-controlling creep mechanism. An n value close to unity suggests creep is controlled by di/uniFB00usional /uniFB02ow whereas n values between 3 and 7 indicate creep is controlled by a dislocation mechanism [41 , 44-49] . The value of the stress exponent from the various studies from 5.0 to 6.1 suggests that the creep of Na is predominantly controlled by dislocation climb. Creep of Li metal, having a stress exponent of ~6.3-6.6, is similarly controlled by dislocation climb. The question becomes, if they both are controlled by dislocation climb why is there a di/uniFB00erence in the value of the stress exponent for the Li and Na? Dislocation climb can be rate-limited by lattice di/uniFB00usion or dislocation core di/uniFB00usion. At high temperatures and low stresses lattice di/uniFB00usion is dominant whereas at lower temperatures or higher stresses, dislocation core di/uniFB00usion becomes dominant [41 , 49] . From Table 2 it is observed that Li exhibits higher stress than Na at room temperature and thus, it is possible that Li creep is controlled by dislocation core di/uniFB00usion. In general, the stress exponent for dislocation climb controlled by lattice di/uniFB00usion is close to 5 [41 , 44-49] . The stress exponent for Na is close to 5 which suggests dislocation climb rate-limited by lattice di/uniFB00usion. If dislocation climb is controlled by dislocation core di/uniFB00usion the creep rate varies as /u1D70E n + 2, where n is the stress exponent associated with lattice di/uniFB00usion [41 , 49 , 50] . Hence, the predicted stress exponent for dislocation climb controlled by dislocation core di/uniFB00usion would be the lattice di/uniFB00usion exponent (5) + 2 = 7. The experimental stress exponent value of 6.3-6.6 for Li is in closer agreement with the predicted stress exponent for dislocation core di/uniFB00usion ( n = 7) rather than lattice di/uniFB00usion ( n = 5) suggesting that the creep of Li is dislocation climb rate-limited by dislocation core di/uniFB00usion.

In addition, at room temperature the homologous temperature for Li ( T h = 0.66) is lower than that for Na ( T h = 0.80), thus it is possible that at this lower value of the homologous temperature, climb could be controlled by dislocation core di/uniFB00usion rather than lattice di/uniFB00usion. This can be investigated by comparing the activation energy for creep ( Q c ) with the measured or predicted activation energy values for lattice ( Q L ) and dislocation core di/uniFB00usion ( Q P ). In the case of Li metal, the activation energy for Li lattice di/uniFB00usion ( Q L ) is ~55 kJ mol -1 [51] and, in general, activation energies for dislocation core di/uniFB00usion ( Q P ) are ~0.5 to 0.6 Q L [41 , 50] , hence approximately ~28-33 kJ mol -1 . The activation energy for Li metal creep ( Q c ) was measured by LePage et al . [18] over a temperature range of -25 to 125 °C to be 37 kJ mol -1 , which is in closer agreement with the predicted activation energy for dislocation core di/uniFB00usion than the activation energy for Li lattice di/uniFB00usion. This result provides additional evidence that the dislocation climb of Li at room temperature is controlled by dislocation core di/uniFB00usion. Although currently, no activation energy for Na creep is readily available, as previously discussed, based on the stress exponent, it is expected that the dislocation climb in Na metal is controlled by lattice di/uniFB00usion. Therefore, it is expected based on the stress exponent, that the activation energy ( Q c ) for Na metal creep should be close to the activation energy for Na lattice di/uniFB00usion ( Q L = 44 kJ mol -1 ) [52] .

## 3.5. E/uniFB00ects of interfacial forces on Na deformation

As it has been suggested that frictional and adhesive forces at the interface between Li metal and solid-electrolyte play an important role in battery operation [23] , the e/uniFB00ects of interfacial stresses on Na deformation were investigated. Fig. 4 shows the stress/strain behavior of Na metal foils on three di/uniFB00erent substrates: oil-lubricated stainless steel (to minimize interface e/uniFB00ects), battery grade Ni foil (to emulate a current collector), and a Na/u1D6FD ''-alumina solid-electrolyte. Na metal foils were used instead of rods, to more closely resemble foil electrodes used in the literature. For each substrate, /uniFB01ve compression experiments were performed, and the maximum and minimum values are plotted as the

Fig. 4. Compression behavior on relevant substrates at a strain-rate of 1.22 × 10 -3 s -1 . (a) Schematic of each cell, (b) Stress-strain curves on varying substrates. The minimum and maximum values over /uniFB01ve experiments per substrate are plotted with each individual stress-strain curve lying within the shaded regions.

solid lines in Fig. 4 with all of the individual stress-strain curves lying within the shaded region. In general, the stress/strain curves exhibited slightly higher yield and /uniFB02ow stresses as well as shorter periods of plastic /uniFB02ow in comparison to the compression curves in Fig. 1(b) , which is due to the di/uniFB00erent aspect ratios of the Na metal foils compared to the Na metal rods. It was observed in Fig. 4 (b) that the /uniFB02ow stress was consistently the lowest in the case of the oil-lubricated steel, which is to be expected, given that this substrate was intended to emulate a frictionless surface. The samples compressed on Ni foil substrates consistently exhibited the next highest /uniFB02ow stresses and then the samples compressed on the Na/u1D6FD ''-alumina consistently exhibited the highest /uniFB02ow stresses. While both these surfaces are expected to have higher /uniFB02ow stresses due to the additional friction, it is believed that the higher /uniFB02ow stress on the Na/u1D6FD ''-alumina surface is due to the wettability of Na on the oxide surface. As has been seen with Li metal on Li + conducting oxides, Li adheres very strongly to oxide electrolytes, to the degree that under tensile measurements, the Li metal itself fractures before the interface fractures [53 , 54] . In recent works studying the interfacial resistance of Na metal on Na/u1D6FD ''-alumina [14] , it was shown that without the presence of surface contaminants, solid Na metal can also wet and easily adhere to the Na/u1D6FD ''-alumina surface with the application of elevated pressures (~3 MPa). Therefore, similar to the adhesive forces that have been observed with Li metal on Li-containing oxides, it is likely that Na metal adheres similarly to Na-containing oxides. These additional interfacial forces that are at play on the Na/u1D6FD ''-alumina substrate may explain why the highest stresses were required for the Na metal to /uniFB02ow and spread along the Na/u1D6FD ''-alumina. Not only are frictional forces at play, but additional adhesive forces may impede sliding of the Na metal. Measuring at 20% strains, the e/uniFB00ects of interfacial friction increases the average /uniFB02ow stresses from 0.41 MPa on the oil substrate to 0.52 MPa

and 0.59 MPa on the Ni and Na/u1D6FD ''-alumina substrates respectively. The standard deviations of the /uniFB02ow stress on each substrate respectively was calculated to be 0.08 MPa, 0.10 MPa, and 0.06 MPa. On the surface of the Na/u1D6FD ''-alumina, this represents a 40% increase in the /uniFB02ow stress due to the interfacial stresses. This may have major implications when considering the /uniFB02ow of electroplated Na metal upon charging of the battery either along the Na/electrolyte interface or out of a surface defect. However, this may also be bene/uniFB01cial for the battery operation under stack pressure, as the interfacial forces may impede continual deformation of the anode under high stack pressures, preventing the possibility of external short-circuits. Therefore, when analyzing and/or modeling these interfacial phenomena, the e/uniFB00ects of both adhesive and frictional forces should be considered.

## 3.6. Charge/discharge rate performance

The mechanical properties of both alkali metal anode and solid electrolyte have proven to be crucial material characteristics to understand the stability of internal interfaces in solid-state batteries. It has been demonstrated in this work and is highlighted in Tables 1 and 2 , that in many aspects, Na is a signi/uniFB01cantly softer and weaker metal than Li, which may have major implications in the cycling stability and manufacturing of solid-state batteries with Na or Li metal anodes. In recent years, the physical environment at the anode/electrolyte interface has been hypothesized to be strongly linked to the mechanical properties of the metal anode. Most notably are the phenomena of /uniFB01lament propagation upon charging and electrochemical void formation upon discharging.

It has been widely hypothesized that the propagation of metal /uniFB01laments through rigid ceramic electrolytes may be related to the buildup of a Poiseuille pressure [17] resulting from the inability of the alkali metal to deform quickly enough upon fast charging conditions [13 , 17 , 18 , 21] . Based on this hypothesis, a softer and weaker metal, more amenable to plastic /uniFB02ow, would have a lower tendency to propagate metal /uniFB01laments for a given plating current than a sti/uniFB00er and stronger metal. This hypothesis was supported by a recent report by Bay et al. [14] , which demonstrated a one order of magnitude di/uniFB00erence between the critical current density (CCD) of a Na/Na/u1D6FD ''-alumina cycling under identical conditions to a Li/Li 7 La 3 Zr 2 O 12 cell. Based on the mechanical properties measured in this work, Na is indeed softer than Li in terms of elastic moduli, yield, and /uniFB02ow stresses, and therefore are consistent with this hypothesis. However, in no single property is there an order of magnitude di/uniFB00erence between mechanical properties that would directly correlate with an order of magnitude di/uniFB00erence in CCD, suggesting that there are additional factors that still need to be understood. One other factor that needs further investigation may be the e/uniFB00ects of interfacial forces like friction and/or adhesion, as previously discussed, which may hinder plastic /uniFB02ow of the electroplated metals near the electrolyte interface.

Upon discharge, it was also recently observed that at high discharging rates (which are equivalent to high strain-rates) or at low stack pressures, the lack of mass transport of Li from the bulk anode toward the electrolyte interface results in anode/electrolyte contact loss from an electrochemical formation of voids/pores, which leads to dramatic increases in the cell resistance and can lead to highly localized current densities upon subsequent charge cycles [8-11] . Similar to the plating case, void formation is a phenomenon driven by insu/uniFB03cient mass transport at the interface and therefore, a softer metal that can more easily /uniFB02ow toward the electrolyte interface as the cationic species dissolves into the electrolyte would be less prone to electrochemical void formation. Therefore, it is likely that Na metal anodes should discharge at higher rates without increases in cell resistance or alternatively require less stack pressure to maintain low cell resistances. This is observed in the CCD data by Bay et al. [14] , where cell polarization in the Na/N/u1D6FD ''-alumina is not observed until higher current densities than in the Li/Li 7 La 3 Zr 2 O 12 system for the same stack pressures. Jolly et al. also demonstrated that lower stack pressures are required to maintain stable cycling of Na/N/u1D6FD ''-alumina compared to the Li/Li 6 PS 5 Cl system [11] . Again, these results are consistent with the measured properties in this work, which support the hypothesis that the closure of electrochemically formed voids is facilitated by yielding, plastic /uniFB02ow, and creep.

## 3.7. E/uniFB00ect of stack pressure

Aside from cycling performance, the mechanical properties of the metal anode are likely to have important implications on the manufacturing of solid-state batteries. As discussed, higher stack pressures (1-10 MPa) compared to state-of-the-art Li-ion (0.1-1 MPa [55] ) appear to be a necessary requirement for alkali metal solid-state battery operation. Given that these stack pressure regimes are well above the measured yield strength, Na metal should continuously /uniFB02ow under pressures commensurate with Li-ion packs (~1 MPa) and under pressures in which solid-state cells have been cycled in the literature [9-12 , 14] . If this were true, it would be likely that the area of the constantly deforming Na metal would eventually exceed the electrolyte footprint, extrude to the electrolyte edge, contact the cathode, and form a short-circuit, as illustrated by Masias et al. [23] .

The deformation behavior of a Na metal foil in between a Na/u1D6FD ''-alumina electrolyte and a Ni foil current collector is shown in Fig. 5 under two di/uniFB00erent stack pressure schemes. Fig. 5 (b) shows the engineering stress response upon initial loading to a stack pressure of 3 MPa and then holding the extension constant. This scenario simulates the assembly of a Na metal cell where the stack pressure is applied by a rigid cell casing, e.g. a prismatic cell. It can be seen that after switching from a controlled pressure ramp to a constant extension scheme, the stress decays rapidly from 3 MPa and leveling o/uniFB00 to a value of ~0.6 MPa. Some oscillations are observed at longer times which are believed to be an artifact of the load frame control loop. Fig. 5 (c) shows the scenario in which the Na is loaded to a 3 MPa stack pressure (engineering stress) and then held at a constant load. The strain response exhibits a decay before leveling o/uniFB00 at a /uniFB01xed strain value after multiple hours, although the magnitude of the strain is noticeably higher than in Fig. 5 (b). In both cases, because the strains at steady state are above 50%, the Na metal has undergone a signi/uniFB01cant change in area and therefore, the actual (true) stresses are also signi/uniFB01cantly lower than the measured stresses. Accounting for the increases in area, the steady-state true stresses in Fig. 5 (b) and (c) are 0.27 MPa and 1.02 MPa respectively. Even accounting for the areal increase, the steady-state true stresses are still above the /uniFB02ow stress measured in Fig. 1 (b) ( Table 2 ), the plateau in both the stress and strain responses indicate that further deformation is dramatically slowed . This is likely due to the additional interfacial forces from the electrolyte and current collector as demonstrated in Fig. 4 . Additionally, as the aspect ratio increases upon deformation and the contact area between Na and electrolyte/current-collector also increases, the impact of interfacial stresses continually becomes more prominent. However, it should be noted that while the plateaus indicate that the further deformation has been dramatically slowed, as demonstrated in Fig. 3 , even under a low constant stress, further deformation will be occurring via creep, albeit at strain-rates several orders of magnitude lower than the original deformation. This suggests that these stresses are bene/uniFB01cial for impeding deformation of the Na electrode which can short-circuit the cell around the electrolyte edges as proposed by Masias et al. [23] . In the case of Li metal, it was hypothesized that the frictional e/uniFB00ects were responsible for a signi/uniFB01cant barreling phenomenon that was observed [23] . Barreling to the extent demonstrated by Masias et al. [23] , was not observed in this work. However, aside from interfacial forces, it may also be possible that the observed di/uniFB00erences compared to previously measured compression deformation behavior is that there may exist e/uniFB00ects from the loading history. It is possible that the plastic properties of the sample are not history independent and therefore the di/uniFB00erent loading schemes may lead to slightly di/uniFB00erent /uniFB02ow stresses. Regardless, this suggests that the stress decay must be taken into account in the design and

Fig. 5. Response of a Na metal anode under a relevant stack pressure (a) Schematic of Na foil compression between a Ni current collector and Na/u1D6FD ''-alumina solid-electrolyte. (b) Engineering stress response after loading to a 3 MPa stack pressure and holding at constant extension. (c) Engineering strain response while maintaining a 3 MPa stack pressure. In both (b) and (c), the target stress is approached at a strain-rate of 1.22 × 10 -3 s -1 .

manufacturing of cells and packs, especially if high stack pressures are required to achieve and maintain targeted rate performance.

## 4. Conclusions

In order to better understand the behavior of Na metal anodes in solid-state batteries, this work investigated the elastic and plastic behavior of bulk Na metal. Using an acoustic pulse-echo method, the elastic constants were determined to be 4.6, 1.7, and 8.5 GPa for the elastic, shear, and bulk moduli, respectively. Using a load frame contained within an inert atmosphere, stress-strain curves of bulk Na metal were generated and exhibited yield strengths between 0.19 and 0.28 MPa at a strain-rate of ~10 -3 s -1 . In tensile constant strain-rate tests, no work hardening was observed due to the high homologous temperature of Na at room temperature ( T h = 0.8), which indicates that deformation at room temperature is dominated by di/uniFB00usion. The stress exponent for Na at room temperature was measured to be 5.0 from constant load and constant strain-rate tests. This value suggests that the rate controlling creep mechanism for Na is dislocation climb, which is the same mechanism proposed for the creep of Li at room temperature. Overall, due to the lower melting temperature of Na compared to Li, Na exhibits both lower elastic moduli and plastic properties (yield strength and creep rate), which may be a key reason for the superior rate capabilities of Na metal anodes compared to Li metal anodes thus far. Finally, the e/uniFB00ects of interfacial forces between Na metal and other components in a solidstate battery (solid-state electrolyte and current collector) were found to impede Na deformation, which may have implications in terms of Na /uniFB01lament propagation through a solid-electrolyte and/or for manufacturing of Na metal solid-state batteries. Overall, this work aims to inform future experiments and modeling for gaining deeper understandings of coupled mechano-electrochemical phenomena in solid-state batteries and guide future designs for these systems.

## Declaration of Competing Interest

The authors declare no competing interests.

## Acknowledgments

M.J.W was supported by the University of Michigan Rackham Graduate School. The authors would like to acknowledge M.C. Bay and C. Battaglia at the Empa Swiss Federal Laboratories for valuable input and discussion and for providing the Na/u1D6FD ''-alumina samples used in this work. The authors would also like to acknowledge the manuscript reviewers for a very thorough and constructive review which we believe has greatly contributed to the work.

## References

- [1] J.-M. Tarascon, M. Armand, Issues and challenges facing rechargeable lithium batteries, Nature 414 (2001) 359-367, doi: 10.1038/35104644 .
- [2] P. Albertus, S. Babinec, S. Litzelman, A. Newman, Status and challenges in enabling the lithium metal electrode for high-energy and low-cost rechargeable batteries, Nat. Energy 3 (2018) 16, doi: 10.1038/s41560-017-0047-2 .
- [3] J. Becking, A. Gröbmeyer, M. Kolek, U. Rodehorst, S. Schulze, M. Winter, P. Bieker, M.C. Stan, Lithium-metal foil surface modi/uniFB01cation: an e/uniFB00ective method to improve the cycling performance of lithium-metal batteries, Adv. Mater. Interfaces 4 (2017) 1700166, doi: 10.1002/admi.201700166 .
- [4] D. Larcher, J.-M. Tarascon, Towards greener and more sustainable batteries for electrical energy storage, Nat. Chem. 7 (2015) 19-29, doi: 10.1038/nchem.2085 .
- [5] M.D. Slater, D. Kim, E. Lee, C.S. Johnson, Sodium-ion batteries, Adv. Funct. Mater. 23 (2013) 947-958, doi: 10.1002/adfm.201200691 .
- [6] X. Zheng, C. Bommier, W. Luo, L. Jiang, Y. Hao, Y. Huang, Sodium metal anodes for room-temperature sodium-ion batteries: Applications, challenges and solutions, Energy Storage Mater. 16 (2019) 6-23, doi: 10.1016/j.ensm.2018.04.014 .
- [7] D. Aurbach, E. Zinigrad, H. Teller, P. Dan, Factors which limit the cycle life of rechargeable lithium (metal) batteries, J. Electrochem. Soc. 147 (2000) 1274, doi: 10.1149/1.1393349 .
- [8] M.J. Wang, R. Choudhury, J. Sakamoto, Characterizing the Li-solid-electrolyte interface dynamics as a function of stack pressure and current density, Joule 3 (2019) 2165-2178, doi: 10.1016/j.joule.2019.06.017 .
- [9] T. Krauskopf, H. Hartmann, W.G. Zeier, J. Janek, Toward a fundamental understanding of the lithium metal anode in solid-state batteries -an electrochemo-mechanical study on the garnet-type solid electrolyte Li 6.25 Al 0.25 La 3 Zr 2 O 12 , ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces (2019), doi: 10.1021/acsami.9b02537 .
- [10] J. Kasemchainan, S. Zekoll, D. Spencer Jolly, Z. Ning, G.O. Hartley, J. Marrow, P.G. Bruce, Critical stripping current leads to dendrite formation on plating in lithium anode solid electrolyte cells, Nat. Mater. 18 (2019) 1105-1111, doi: 10.1038/s41563-019-0438-9 .
- [11] D. Spencer Jolly, Z. Ning, J.E. Darnbrough, J. Kasemchainan, G.O. Hartley, P. Adamson, D. Armstrong, J. Marrow, P.G. Bruce, The sodium/Na beta ' alumina interface: E/uniFB00ect of pressure on voids, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces (2019), doi: 10.1021/acsami.9b17786 .
- [12] M. Wang, J.B. Wolfenstine, J. Sakamoto, Temperature dependent /uniFB02ux balance of the Li/Li 7 La 3 Zr 2 O 12 interface, Electrochim. Acta 296 (2019) 842-847, doi: 10.1016/j.electacta.2018.11.034 .
- [13] L. Porz, T. Swamy, B.W. Sheldon, D. Rettenwander, T. Frömling, H.L. Thaman, S. Berendts, R. Uecker, W.C. Carter, Y.-M. Chiang, Mechanism of lithium metal penetration through inorganic solid electrolytes, Adv. Energy Mater. 7 (2017) 1701003, doi: 10.1002/aenm.201701003 .
- [14] M. Bay, M. Wang, R. Grissa, M.V.F. Heinz, J. Sakamoto, C. Battaglia, Sodium plating from Na -/u1D6FD ″-alumina ceramics at room temperature, paving the way for fast -charging all -solid -state batteries, Adv. Energy Mater. 10 (2020) 1902899, doi: 10.1002/aenm.201902899 .
- [15] F. Shen, M.B. Dixit, X. Xiao, K.B. Hatzell, E/uniFB00ect of pore connectivity on Li dendrite propagation within LLZO electrolytes observed with synchrotron X-ray tomography, ACS Energy Lett. 3 (2018) 1056-1061, doi: 10.1021/acsenergylett.8b00249 .
- [16] R.H. Basappa, T. Ito, H. Yamada, Contact between garnet-type solid electrolyte and lithium metal anode: in/uniFB02uence on charge transfer resistance and short circuit prevention, J. Electrochem. Soc. 164 (2017) A666-A671, doi: 10.1149/2.0841704jes .
- [17] R.D. Armstrong, T. Dickinson, J. Turner, The breakdown of /u1D6FD -alumina ceramic electrolyte, Electrochim. Acta 19 (1974) 187-192, doi: 10.1016/0013-4686(74)85065-6 .
- [18] W.S. LePage, Y. Chen, E. Kazyak, K.-H. Chen, A.J. Sanchez, A. Poli, E.M. Arruda, M.D. Thouless, N.P. Dasgupta, Lithium mechanics: roles of strain rate and temperature and implications for lithium metal batteries, J. Electrochem. Soc. 166 (2019) A89-A97, doi: 10.1149/2.0221902jes .
- [19] C. Xu , Z. Ahmad , A. Aryanfar , V. Viswanathan , J.R. Greer , Enhanced strength and temperature dependence of mechanical properties of Li at small scales and its implications for Li metal anodes, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 114 (2017) 57-61 .

- [20] E.G. Herbert, S.A. Hackney, V. Thole, N.J. Dudney, P.S. Phani, Nanoindentation of high-purity vapor deposited lithium /uniFB01lms: A mechanistic rationalization of di/uniFB00usionmediated /uniFB02ow, J. Mater. Res. 33 (2018) 1347-1360, doi: 10.1557/jmr.2018.84 .
- [21] E.G. Herbert, N.J. Dudney, M. Rochow, V. Thole, S.A. Hackney, On the mechanisms of stress relaxation and intensi/uniFB01cation at the lithium/solid-state electrolyte interface, J. Mater. Res. 34 (2019) 3593-3616, doi: 10.1557/jmr.2019.313 .
- [22] C.D. Fincher, D. Ojeda, Y. Zhang, G.M. Pharr, M. Pharr, Mechanical properties of metallic lithium: from nano to bulk scales, Acta Mater. (2019) S1359645419308754, doi: 10.1016/j.actamat.2019.12.036 .
- [23] A. Masias, N. Felten, R. Garcia-Mendez, J. Wolfenstine, J. Sakamoto, Elastic, plastic, and creep mechanical properties of lithium metal, J. Mater. Sci. 54 (2019) 25852600, doi: 10.1007/s10853-018-2971-3 .
- [24] X. Zhang, Q.J. Wang, K.L. Harrison, K. Jungjohann, B.L. Boyce, S.A. Roberts, P.M. Attia, S.J. Harris, Rethinking how external pressure can suppress dendrites in lithium metal batteries, J. Electrochem. Soc. 166 (2019) A3639-A3652, doi: 10.1149/2.0701914jes .
- [25] X. Zhang, Q.J. Wang, K.L. Harrison, S.A. Roberts, S.J. Harris, Pressure-driven interface evolution in solid-state lithium metal batteries, Cell Rep. Phys. Sci. 100012 (2020), doi: 10.1016/j.xcrp.2019.100012 .
- [26] A. Raju Natarajan, A. Van der Ven, Toward an understanding of deformation mechanisms in metallic lithium and sodium from /uniFB01rst-principles, Chem. Mater. 31 (2019) 8222-8229, doi: 10.1021/acs.chemmater.9b03422 .
- [27] Y. Wang, D. Dang, M. Wang, X. Xiao, Y.-T. Cheng, Mechanical behavior of electroplated mossy lithium at room temperature studied by /uniFB02at punch indentation, Appl. Phys. Lett. 115 (2019) 043903, doi: 10.1063/1.5111150 .
- [28] P.M. Sargent, M.F. Ashby, Deformation mechanism maps for alkali metals, Scr. Metall. 18 (1984) 145-150, doi: 10.1016/0036-9748(84)90494-0 .
- [29] C.D. Fincher, Y. Zhang, G.M. Pharr, M. Pharr, Elastic and plastic characteristics of sodium metal, ACS Appl. Energy Mater. (2020), doi: 10.1021/acsaem.9b02225 .
- [30] T. Lan, C.-L. Tsai, F. Tietz, X.-K. Wei, M. Heggen, R.E. Dunin-Borkowski, R. Wang, Y. Xiao, Q. Ma, O. Guillon, Room-temperature all-solid-state sodium batteries with robust ceramic interface between rigid electrolyte and electrode materials, Nano Energy 104040 (2019), doi: 10.1016/j.nanoen.2019.104040 .
- [31] E07 Committee, Practice for Measuring Ultrasonic Velocity in Materials, ASTM International, 2015. n.d. https://doi.org/10.1520/E0494-15 .
- [32] E28 Committee, Test Methods for Tension Testing of Metallic Materials, ASTM International, 2013. n.d. https://doi.org/10.1520/E0008\_E0008M-13A .
- [33] E28 Committee, Test Methods of Compression Testing of Metallic Materials at Room Temperature, ASTM International, 2019. n.d. https://doi.org/10.1520/E0009-19 .
- [34] S.L. Quimby, S. Siegel, The variation of the elastic constants of crystalline sodium with temperature between 80°K and 210°K, Phys. Rev. 54 (1938) 293-299, doi: 10.1103/PhysRev.54.293 .
- [35] G. Fritsch, F. Geipel, A. Prasetyo, The elastic constants of sodium from 20 to 95°C, J. Phys. Chem. Solids 34 (1973) 1961-1969, doi: 10.1016/S0022-3697(73)80118-0 .
- [36] R.H. Martinson, Variation of the elastic constants of sodium with temperature and pressure, Phys. Rev. 178 (1969) 902-913, doi: 10.1103/PhysRev.178.902 .
- [37] M.E. Diederich, J. Trivisonno, Temperature dependence of the elastic constants of sodium, J. Phys. Chem. Solids 27 (1966) 637-642, doi: 10.1016/0022-3697(66)90214-9 .
- [38] W.B. Daniels, Pressure variation of the elastic constants of sodium, Phys. Rev. 119 (1960) 1246-1252, doi: 10.1103/PhysRev.119.1246 .
- [39] Z. Hashin, S. Shtrikman, A variational approach to the theory of the elastic behaviour of polycrystals, J. Mech. Phys. Solids. 10 (1962) 343-352, doi: 10.1016/0022-5096(62)90005-4 .
- [40] S. Yu, R.D. Schmidt, R. Garcia-Mendez, E. Herbert, N.J. Dudney, J.B. Wolfenstine, J. Sakamoto, D.J. Siegel, Elastic properties of the solid electrolyte Li 7 La 3 Zr 2 O 12 (LLZO), Chem. Mater. 28 (2016) 197-206, doi: 10.1021/acs.chemmater.5b03854 .
- [41] H.J. Frost , M.F. Ashby , Deformation-Mechanism Maps: The Plasticity and Creep of Metals and Ceramics, Pergamon Press, Oxford, 1982 .
- [42] S. Tariq, K. Ammigan, P. Hurh, R. Schultz, P. Liu, J. Shang, Li material testing - Fermilab antiproton source lithium collection lens, in: Proceedings of the 2003 Particle Accelerator Conference, 3, 2003, pp. 1452-1454, doi: 10.1109/PAC.2003.1288558 .
- [43] D. Hull, H.M. Rosenberg, The deformation of lithium, sodium and potassium at low temperatures: Tensile and resistivity experiments, Philos. Mag. 4 (1959) 303-315, doi: 10.1080/14786435908233342 .
- [44] A.K. Mukherjee , J.E. Bird , J.E. Dorn , Experimental correlations for high-temperature creep, search results web results, Trans. Am. Soc. Met. 62 (1968) 155-179 .
- [45] O.D. Sherby, P.M. Burke, Mechanical behavior of crystalline solids at elevated temperature, Prog. Mater. Sci. 13 (1968) 323-390, doi: 10.1016/0079-6425(68)90024-8 .
- [46] T.G. Langdon, F.A. Mohamed, A new type of deformation mechanism map for high-temperature creep, Mater. Sci. Eng. 32 (1978) 103-112, doi: 10.1016/0025-5416(78)90029-0 .
- [47] J. Weertman, Steady -state creep through dislocation climb, J. Appl. Phys. 28 (1957) 362-364, doi: 10.1063/1.1722747 .
- [48] F.R.N. Nabarro, Creep in commercially pure metals, Acta Mater. 54 (2006) 263-295, doi: 10.1016/j.actamat.2005.08.021 .
- [49] G.E. Dieter , Mechanical metallurgy, 3rd ed, McGraw-Hill, New York, 1986 .
- [50] S.L. Robinson, O.D. Sherby, Mechanical behavior of polycrystalline tungsten at elevated temperature, Acta Metall. 17 (1969) 109-125, doi: 10.1016/0001-6160(69)90132-1 .
- [51] A. Lodding, J.N. Mundy, A. Ott, Isotope inter-di/uniFB00usion and self-di/uniFB00usion in solid lithium metal, Phys. Status Solidi B. 38 (1970) 559-569, doi: 10.1002/pssb.19700380206 .
- [52] N.H. Nachtrieb, J.A. Weil, E. Catalano, A.W. Lawson, Self -di/uniFB00usion in solid sodium. II. The e/uniFB00ect of pressure, J. Chem. Phys. 20 (1952) 1189-1194, doi: 10.1063/1.1700709 .
- [53] M. Wang, J. Sakamoto, Correlating the interface resistance and surface adhesion of the Li metal-solid electrolyte interface, J. Power Sour. 377 (2018) 7-11, doi: 10.1016/j.jpowsour.2017.11.078 .
- [54] A. Shara/uniFB01, E. Kazyak, A.L. Davis, S. Yu, T. Thompson, D.J. Siegel, N.P. Dasgupta, J. Sakamoto, Surface chemistry mechanism of ultra-low interfacial resistance in the solid-state electrolyte Li 7 La 3 Zr 2 O 12 , Chem. Mater. (2017), doi: 10.1021/acs.chemmater.7b03002 .
- [55] J. Cannarella, C.B. Arnold, Stress evolution and capacity fade in constrained lithium-ion pouch cells, J. Power Sour. 245 (2014) 745-751, doi: 10.1016/j.jpowsour.2013.06.165 .