## An Anode-Free Sodium All-Solid-State Battery

Grayson Deysher 1 , Jin An Sam Oh 2 , Yu-Ting Chen 1 , Baharak Sayahpour 1 , So-Yeon Ham 1 , Diyi Cheng 1 , Phillip Ridley 2 , Ashley Cronk 1 , Sharon Wan-Hsuan Lin 2 , Kun Qian 2 , Long Hoang Bao Nguyen 2 , Jihyun Jang 2,3, *, Ying Shirley Meng 2,4, *

1 Program of Materials Science and Engineering, University of California San Diego; La Jolla, CA 92093, United States.

2 Department of NanoEngineering, University of California San Diego; La Jolla, CA 92093, United States.

3 Department of Chemistry, Sogang University; Seoul, 04107, Republic of Korea.

4 Pritzker School of Molecular Engineering, The University of Chicago; Chicago, IL 60637, United States.

* Corresponding authors: jihyunjang@sogang.ac.kr, shirleymeng@uchicago.edu

## Abstract

Anode-free batteries possess the optimal cell architecture due to their reduced weight, volume, and cost. However, their implementation has been limited by unstable anode morphological changes and anode-liquid electrolyte interface reactions. An electrochemically stable solid electrolyte can solve these issues by enabling the deposition of dense sodium metal. Furthermore, a novel type of aluminum  current  collector  can  achieve  intimate  solid-solid  contact  with  the  solid  electrolyte which allows highly  reversible  sodium  plating  and  stripping  at  both  high  areal  capacities  and current densities, previously unobtainable with conventional aluminum foil. A sodium anode-free all-solid-state battery full-cell is demonstrated with stable cycling for several hundred cycles. This cell architecture serves as a future direction for other battery chemistries to enable low-cost, highenergy-density, and fast charging batteries.

## Introduction

Recent years have shown an increasing demand for electric vehicles as well as energy storage devices for large-scale grid applications. Batteries are critical for enabling these technologies and although they have improved significantly since the introduction of the first commercial lithiumion battery in 1990 1 , further enhancements are needed to enable higher energy density and lower cost energy storage systems. While lithium batteries may be optimized further to address these two challenges, there remains an intrinsic limitation. Lithium is geographically concentrated and has experienced a significant increase in price as the demand for batteries grows 2 .  Sodium-based materials, on the other hand, are significantly less expensive and more widely available. While

sodium batteries are often assumed to sacrifice energy density in favor of lower cost, in this work we show that lower-cost sodium batteries may still achieve a high energy density comparable to current lithium systems due to the natural advantages of several sodium materials compared to their lithium counterparts.

To compete with the high energy density possessed by lithium-ion batteries, large specific capacity and high cell voltage are needed while using sodium chemistry. To maximize cell voltage the anode with the lowest reduction potential should be used - sodium metal. However, sodium metal is extremely soft and highly reactive making it impractical to produce foils on a large scale. A recently popularized idea is the use of an anode-free cell architecture 3 .  Unlike conventional batteries, anode-free batteries are those in which no anode active material is used. Rather than using carbon- or alloy-based anode materials to store sodium ions during cell charging, anode-free batteries  rely  on  the  electrochemical  deposition of sodium metal directly onto the surface of a current collector (Fig. 1a). This not only retains the low reduction potential of sodium metal, thus enabling higher cell voltage, but also lowers the cell cost and increases energy density due to the removal of the anode active material (Fig. 1b).

However,  many  challenges  have  prevented  the  use  of  such  a  cell  architecture.  The deposition of sodium metal in conventional organic liquid electrolyte batteries is known to produce a porous or mossy-like morphology 4 . Additionally, liquid electrolytes commonly react with the deposited sodium forming a solid-electrolyte interphase (SEI) 5,6 . Continuous sodium morphological changes during cycling inevitably result in the continuous formation of SEI which steadily  consumes  the  sodium  inventory 7 .  Although  several  strategies  have  been  explored including modifications to the liquid electrolyte 8 , they have yielded only moderate improvements with many demonstrating only tens of cycles and/or low initial Coulombic efficiencies (ICE). Instead, a better approach is to utilize solid-state electrolytes. Due to their solid nature, the solid electrolyte separator layer is limited to a planar two-dimensional contact area with the negative electrode current collector (Fig. 1a). This can facilitate less solid-electrolyte interfacial reactions and can enable the deposition of dense sodium metal.

To enable an anode-free sodium solid-state battery, four conditions must be met (Fig. 1c). First,  an  electrochemically  stable  or  highly  passivating  electrolyte  is  needed  to  avoid  the consumption of active sodium inventory due to the formation of a SEI layer. Second, intimate and robust solid-solid interface contact between the solid electrolyte and the current collector is needed for  repeated  sodium  plating/stripping.  Any  void  between  the  materials  will  prevent  electron transfer and Na 0 deposition cannot occur. Third, a dense solid-state electrolyte separator is needed. It  is  known  that  pores,  cracks,  and  imperfections  can  promote  the  growth  of  metal  filaments through the separator resulting in cell short-circuiting 9-13 . Fourth, the current collector needs to be  highly  dense.  While  porous  current  collectors  have  been  shown  to  be  effective  in  liquid electrolyte cells due to their higher surface area and lowered local current densities 14,15 ,  these current  collectors  cannot  be  used  in  solid-state  cells.  Unlike  liquid  electrolytes,  solid-state electrolytes cannot flow into the pores of the current collector, therefore sodium plated inside the pores will become trapped due to the lack of sodium conduction pathways during stripping.

In this work, we seek to meet these four requirements to enable an anode-free sodium allsolid-state battery. An electrochemically stable sodium borohydride solid electrolyte was found to achieve  near-perfect  contact  with  a  pelletized  aluminum  current  collector.  Morphological evaluation found that the borohydride electrolyte can achieve a nearly fully dense structure by cold pressing  which  inhibited  the  penetration  of  sodium  dendrites  and  enabled  cycling  at  current densities exceeding 6 mA·cm -2 . Additionally, the aluminum current collector was also found to be highly dense thus meeting the four requirements outlined above. As a proof-of-concept, an anodefree sodium all-solid-state battery with NaCrO2 as the cathode was cycled for 400 cycles with an average  Coulombic  efficiency  of  99.96%.  This  work  strives  to  be  framework  for  the  future development  of  sodium  and  other  battery  chemistries  with  high  energy  densities  and  offers  a description of the critical factors governing their electrochemical performance.

Fig. 1. Anode-free schematics and energy density calculations. a) Cell schematic for carbon anodes, alloy anodes, and an anode-free configuration. b) Theoretical energy density comparison for various sodium anode materials. Values used for the calculations can be found in table S1 . c) Schematic illustrating the requirements for enabling an anode-free all-solid-state battery.

## Results and Discussion

## Electrochemically Stable Electrolyte

An anode-free half-cell was assembled with the commonly used Na3PS4 (NPS) solid electrolyte paired with an aluminum foil current collector and Na9Sn4 counter electrode (fig. S1). The ICE was 4%. This can be attributed to the reduction of NPS at low potential forming Na3P 16 , which is a known mixed conductor, leading to continuous SEI growth and the irreversible consumption of sodium inventory. To solve the electrochemical instability, a sodium borohydride solid electrolyte (Na4B10H10B12H12  (NBH))  was  used  as  the  separator.  NBH  has  previously  been  shown  to  be electrochemically stable against sodium metal 16,17 . Sodium was again electrochemically plated onto the aluminum foil and then stripped away, resulting in a higher ICE of 64% (Fig. 2a). This demonstrates the importance of using an electrochemically stable solid electrolyte in anode-free cells.  However,  the  efficiency  when  using  NBH  remained  unacceptably  low,  therefore  other aspects of the anode-free architecture require improvement.

## Intimate Interface Contact

Metal foils are by far the most common current collectors used in batteries, however only a small area of the foil was plated with sodium (Fig. 2a), which was confirmed to be metallic sodium by XRD (fig. S2). This indicates  that  there  is  not  sufficient  solid-solid  contact  between  the  solid electrolyte and the aluminum foil current collector as sodium can only deposit where there is a connection between the incoming Na + from the solid-state electrolyte and the electron from the current  collector.  After  stripping,  sodium  was  still  observed  on  the  foil,  thus  explaining  the relatively low ICE (Fig. 2a). This can be attributed to poor interface contact between the solid electrolyte, sodium metal, and foil current collector which resulted in incomplete stripping of the sodium.  This  indicates  that  conventional  aluminum  foil  does  not  meet  the  intimate  interface contact requirement, resulting in poor reversibility.

To improve the solid-solid interfacial contact between the solid electrolyte and current collector,  pelletized  aluminum  was  pressed  onto  the  solid  electrolyte  separator  during  cell fabrication in the same process as when using aluminum foil (Fig. 2b). Aluminum powder can easily conform to the variable topography of the solid electrolyte separator layer which is formed during the cell fabrication process (Fig. 2c). This current collector will be referred to as aluminum pellet. When cycled under the same conditions, the half-cell ICE was significantly improved to 93%. When cells were disassembled after plating and after one full cycle, the uniformity of the sodium metal distribution on the current collector surface was found to be greatly improved. Even after plating 1 mAh·cm -2 , which theoretically amounts to an 8.5 μm Na metal layer, the deposition was  already  uniformly  distributed.  This  implies  that  the  aluminum  powder  can  form  a  more uniform  and  intimate  contact  with  the  solid  electrolyte  separator  across  the  entire  cell  area compared  to  traditional  aluminum  foil.  This  was  further  demonstrated  with  electrochemical impedance spectroscopy which showed a lower interfacial resistance when using the aluminum pellet current collector (Fig. 2d). Furthermore, the aluminum pellet was shown to evenly distribute the applied stack pressure across the entire area of the cell which was found by inserting pressure-

sensitive paper in between the current collector and solid electrolyte layers during cell fabrication (Fig. 2e). This likely also helps in uniformly spreading the soft sodium metal as it is plated in cells under stack pressures (10 MPa stack pressure used for this study) well above the yield strength of sodium (~0.2 MPa)  18 .

Fig. 2 . Al pellet comparison with Al foil . Plating/stripping behavior at 1 mA·cm -2 current density for a) Al foil and b) Al Pellet current collectors. c) Schematic illustrating the ability of aluminum powder to form intimate contact with the solid electrolyte layer. d) Impedance measurements before and after cycling Al foil and Al pellet cells. e) Pressure paper showing the distribution of pressure over the cell area when using Al foil and Al pellet current collectors. Critical current density when cycling 4 mAh·cm -2 capacity with f) Al  foil  and  g)  Al  pellet  current  collectors.  h)  Critical  current  density  evaluation  as  a  function  of  areal capacity at room temperature when using an Al pellet current collector. Cycling data can be found in fig. S4. Literature data that utilized cold-pressed solid electrolytes is added for comparison 19-41 .

Due to the improved contact and sodium plating uniformity, the applied current will be distributed over a larger area compared to when using aluminum foil. As high current density promotes the formation of dendrites 42-44 , which can lead to cell short-circuiting, lowering the local current density enables cell cycling at higher total currents. When using aluminum foil and cycling with 4 mAh·cm -2 capacity between the electrodes, the critical current density was found to be 1.2 mA·cm -2  (Fig. 2f). The cell failed during the sodium plating step, and the Na9Sn4 counter electrode

was found to cycle at much higher currents (fig. S3) therefore this critical current density can be attributed to failure by sodium dendrite penetration through the electrolyte during plating. When using the aluminum pellet current collector, the critical current density increased to 6.0 mA·cm -2 (Fig. 2g). Interestingly, compared to previously reported critical current density values for cold pressed cells (Fig. 2h) our data shows successful cycling at significantly higher currents, even when using an aluminum foil current collector. Most previously reported critical current density values are ≤ 2 mA·cm -2 at ≤ 2 mAh·cm -2 capacity. This indicates that there may be another factor governing the high current ability of these cells, besides the type of current collector.

## Dense Solid Electrolyte

Anode-free cells rely on the nature of the interface between the current collector and the solid electrolyte.  Therefore,  the  solid  electrolyte  properties  are  also  important  to  consider  when assessing this type of cell architecture. Focused-ion beam milling scanning electron microscopy (FIB-SEM) was used to evaluate the morphology of the NBH solid electrolyte after cold pressing to form the separator layer (Fig. 3a-c). The NBH electrolyte separator exhibited an extremely dense morphology. The crosshatch line pattern textured on the surface is due to the imperfect titanium plunger used to press the solid electrolyte layer (fig. S5). More importantly, only a few rounded micron-sized surface pores were observed indicating good compaction without the need for high temperature sintering (Fig. 3b). The cross-section of the NBH was intentionally milled at the spot of one of the surface pores to examine how deep they protrude into the electrolyte layer. It was found that the pores have a rounded morphology that does not extend further than ~1 μm (Fig. 3c). In  addition  to  the  intimate  interface  contact  achieved  by  using  the  aluminum  pellet  current collector,  the  dense  morphology of NBH also contributes to the observed high critical current densities. It is known that imperfections in the solid electrolyte separator such as pores and cracks can result  in  dendrite  penetration  and  cell  short  circuiting 9-13 .  Without  these  imperfections,  it becomes much more difficult for sodium to penetrate the solid electrolyte  layer  (Fig.  3d).  To compare  with  lithium  solid  electrolytes,  Li4B10H10B12H12  (LBH)  was  selected  as  a  direct comparison with NBH as it has also been shown to achieve an electrochemically stable interface with lithium metal 45 . Li6PS5Cl (LPSCl) was also selected due to its common use in lithium solidstate  batteries.  These  solid  electrolytes  were  found  to  exhibit  porous  morphologies  after  cold pressing (fig. S6). When these electrolytes were used as the separator in lithium half-cells, the cells short circuited shortly after the plating step began and could only be successfully cycled at much lower current densities (0.1 mA·cm -2 ). This can be attributed to the soft lithium creeping into the surface cracks of the separators 12 ,  which can result in current concentrations at the tips of the lithium metal filaments and further exacerbate the filament growth through the solid electrolyte 46 . NBH materials on the other hand have been shown to be softer than their lithium counterparts 47 , but previously there have been no visual observations of the highly dense morphology that can be achieved  by  cold  pressing  when  using  NBH.  The  high  sodium  critical  current  density  can  be attributed to this newly revealed ability of this borohydride electrolyte.

Fig. 3 . Evaluation of NBH morphology . SEM of a) NBH particles and b) top view of the NBH separator after  cold  pressing.  c)  FIB-SEM  cross  section  view  of  NBH  separator.  d)  Schematic  illustrating  the propensity of sodium to deposit without forming dendrites through the electrolyte.

## Dense Current Collector

To probe the effect of the current collector morphology, aluminum, copper, and titanium were selected  for  comparison  due  to  their  common  use  in  solid-state  battery  research  as  current collectors and cell materials. Like aluminum, copper and titanium do not form alloys with sodium, ensuring that they will only act as a current collector. Using a half-cell configuration, the plate/strip ICEs were significantly different (Fig. 4a-c). There were also small slope regions observed in the voltage curves during the initial stages of plating when using copper and titanium. This is attributed to the surface oxide layers present on these metals that react with the incoming sodium forming an oxide (fig. S7). This likely contributes partially to the irreversible capacity due to the high bonding energy between sodium and oxygen although the thin nature of the surface oxides and the small capacity observed within the slope regions indicates that it is not the major factor affecting the overall irreversibility. After repeated cycling the aluminum cells exhibited the highest capacity retention followed by copper, and then titanium which had the lowest capacity retention (Fig. 4d). As the solid electrolyte-current collector interface is known to play a critical role in the cyclability of solid-state anode-free cells (Fig. 2), the surface topography of the three current collectors was compared  using  optical  profilometry  (Fig.  4e-g).  While  all  three  current  collectors  exhibited slightly  different  surface  textures,  likely  correlated  to  their  powder  morphology  (fig.  S8),  the roughness of their surfaces were close in value; 0.98 µm, 1.05 µm, and 0.90 µm for aluminum, copper,  and  titanium  respectively.  Therefore,  their  degree  of  contact  with  the  solid  electrolyte separator should be similar. This indicates that the reversibility differences may be due to a bulk current collector effect rather than an interface variation.

Fig. 4 . Evaluation of various pelletized current collectors . First cycle plating/stripping voltage curves of half-cells using a) Al, b) Cu, and c) Ti pellet current collectors. d) Electrochemical performance of the same three cells over 30 cycles. Optical profilometry measurements of the surface topography of e) Al, f) Cu, and g) Ti pellet current collectors.

To evaluate the bulk morphology of the three current collectors, FIB-SEM was used to image their cross-sections. As shown in Fig. 5a-c, the aluminum current collector was almost fully dense. By using the weight and volume of the pellet, the porosity of the aluminum was calculated to be 0 - 3%. In contrast, the copper current collector contained many micron-sized pores (19 23% porosity), and similarly, the titanium current collector contained many larger pores (34 - 35% porosity).  To  establish  a  quantitative  trend  comparison  between  these  three  materials,  several current collectors were fabricated at various pressures and their porosities were determined (Fig. 5d). It was found that aluminum powder can densify more easily than copper and titanium powders which can be explained by the varying mechanical properties of these three materials in which aluminum possesses the lowest Vickers hardness (~160 MPa) compared to copper (~370 MPa) and titanium (~970 MPa) 48 . To evaluate the potential impact of the current collector porosity on the reversibility of sodium plating/stripping, FIB-SEM was used again on cycled cells after one plate/strip cycle. These results (Fig. 5e-g) show that when pores are present in the current collector, sodium metal can become trapped inside during plating. Since there is no liquid electrolyte present and the solid electrolyte separator is unable to flow into the current collector pores, the sodium in the  pores  becomes  ionically  insulated  after  the  sodium  metal  at  the  solid  electrolyte-current collector interface is stripped away (Fig. 5h). This results in a sodium trapping effect which can be seen in the sodium energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) maps (Fig. 5e-g). Therefore, the use of aluminum was found to be critical to enable reversible plating/stripping, as it is soft enough to become highly dense after cold pressing during cell fabrication.

Fig. 5 . Evaluation of pelletized current collector morphologies . FIB-SEM cross section views of pristine a) Al, b) Cu, and c) Ti pellet current collectors. d) Current collector porosity as a function of fabrication pressure. FIB-SEM cross section views of e) Al, f) Cu, and g) Ti current collectors after one plate/strip cycle with EDS mapping. h) Schematic of Na trapping mechanism for porous current collectors.

## Stack Pressure and Sodium Morphology

Beyond  enabling  reversible  cycling  in  an  anode-free  architecture,  there  are  other  important practical cell performance considerations to evaluate. Often, high stack pressures (50 - 250 MPa) are used for solid-state cell cycling 12,49-53 . This is not a commercially viable option because larger area cells, such as 3×3 cm 2 , can require forces exceeding 10 tonnes (Fig. 6c). It is likely that no battery pack casing will be able to achieve such high pressures safely and consistently without using  a  heavy  construction  and  thus  lowering  the  cell  energy  density.  Instead,  lower  pressure cycling should become the norm for solid-state battery research. Due to their low moduli, bulk alkali metal anodes are known to work well at lower pressures 54,55 . To assess the effect of cell stack pressure on cyclability in this anode-free cell configuration, half-cells were cycled at 5, 10, 15, and 20 MPa of constant stack pressure (Fig. 6a-b). When 10 - 20 MPa was used, the cells exhibited very similar reversibility and capacity retention. This indicates that pressures higher than 10 MPa are not needed. 5 MPa cycling was found to be less reversible. As no noticeable difference in the cyclability of Na9Sn4 was observed at 5 and 10 MPa (fig. S3), the change in anode-free halfcell  performance at 5 MPa can be attributed to the anode-free side. The lower reversibility of anode-free cycling at 5 MPa can be attributed to the difficulty in maintaining intimate solid-solid contact between the current collector, sodium metal, and solid electrolyte which is essential for complete stripping of the deposited sodium. However, lower pressures such as 5 and 1 MPa can still be enabled using a slightly elevated cycling temperature (fig. S9). At 40 °C, the efficiency of 5 and 1 MPa cells became similar to that of 10 MPa presumably due to the softening of metallic sodium, similar to that observed with lithium 56 , which can facilitate the retention of intimate solidsolid interfaces even at lower pressures.

Areal  capacity  is  also  important  to  consider  as  higher  areal  capacities  result  in  higher overall energy densities by maximizing the active: inactive material ratio. Using 10 MPa stack pressure, it was found that cycling 1, 3, and 7 mAh·cm -2 capacity of sodium, corresponding to 8.8, 26.5,  and  61.9  µm  of  deposited  sodium  respectively,  exhibited  very  similar  reversibility  and capacity retention (Fig. 6d-e). Furthermore, similar plating/stripping efficiencies were observed for both 10- and 13-mm diameter cells, which indicates that larger cell areas are also possible (fig. S10). The sodium morphology was evaluated using cryogenic FIB-SEM (Fig. 6f). The sodium was found to form a dense and intimate interface with both the NBH and the Al which is critical for enabling sufficient ion and electron transfer respectively. To evaluate the bulk sodium morphology after plating, a cell was examined using cryo-FIB-SEM after plating 7 mAh·cm -2 capacity (Fig. 6g). The electrochemically deposited sodium metal contained no pores in the area examined. This dense morphology is unique to this solid-state cell architecture under stack pressure compared to the mossy sodium observed when using liquid electrolytes at very low pressures. To evaluate the sodium morphology over a larger scale, an X-ray computed tomography scan was performed on a smaller 4 mm diameter cell after plating 7 mAh·cm -2 capacity (Fig. 6h). The sodium was found to be uniformly distributed across the surface of the current collector (Fig. 6i) and no significant morphological features were observed. This can be attributed to the homogenous plating of sodium due to the intimate and electrochemically stable interface which is responsible for enabling the highly efficient plating/stripping observed for areal capacities as high as 7 mAh·cm -2 .

Fig. 6 . Effects of cell stack pressure and areal capacity . a) Voltage profiles for Na9Sn4 | NBH | Al halfcells cycled at 5, 10, 15, and 20 MPa. b) Capacity retention during extended cycling of the same cells. c) Force required to achieve various stack pressures. d) Voltage profiles for Na9Sn4 | NBH | Al half-cells cycled with 1, 3, and 7 mAh·cm -2 capacities. e) Capacity retention during extended cycling of the same cells. Cryo-FIB/SEM images of the f) Na-Al and Na-NBH interfaces and g) thick plated sodium. h) Cell holder schematic and cycling data for a custom 4 mm diameter X-ray computed tomography cell. i) X-ray computed tomography scan of 7 mAh·cm -2  plated sodium metal.

## Anode-Free Sodium All-Solid-State Full-Cell

To demonstrate an anode-free sodium all-solid-state full-cell, a low cost NaCrO2 cathode was used and paired with a Na0.625Y0.25Zr0.75Cl4.375 catholyte that is known to be electrochemically stable against NaCrO2 57 . When cycled at room temperature, the cell experienced noticeable polarization (Fig. 7a). To overcome the slow cathode kinetics, the full-cell was cycled at a higher temperature of 40 °C (Fig. 7b). This improved the cathode capacity utilization at higher currents (Fig. 7c). Additionally, a constant voltage hold can be added at the charged state to maximize the extraction of capacity from the cathode. With this protocol, the ICE of 93% was achieved which is similar to the ICE achieved in anode-free half cells (Fig. 7d). The cell maintained stable cycling for 400

cycles with a capacity retention of 70% (Fig. 7e) which is due to the high average Coulombic efficiency of 99.96%. This performance is attributed to the combination of the aluminum pellet current collector with the sodium borohydride solid electrolyte. This demonstrates the significant improvement when using an aluminum pellet compared to conventional aluminum foil which can only cycle for tens of cycles before losing most of its capacity (Fig. 7f). While higher cathode loadings and thinner solid electrolyte layers will be needed to enable the full potential of this cell architecture,  this  truly  anode-free  cell  design  demonstrates  the  effectiveness  of  dense  solid electrolyte and current collector morphologies as well as a robust interface between them.

Fig 7 . Anode-free sodium all-solid-state full-cell cycling . Voltage curves of a sodium anode-free halfcell  cycled  at  various  currents  at  a)  room  temperature  and  b)  40  °C.  Voltage  curves  for  the  first  three formation cycles are not shown. c) Cathode capacity as a function of current density. d) Voltage curves of a sodium anode-free solid-state full-cell including a constant voltage hold at 3.5 V and e) cell capacity over 400 cycles for the same cell combined with Al foil data for comparison. NaCrO2 cathode was used in all cells.

## Conclusion

In this work we enable stable cycling in an anode-free all-solid-state battery architecture which can potentially lead to a significant increase in energy density. A pelletized aluminum current collector was shown to enable improved solid-solid interface contact with the borohydride-based solid electrolyte. This intimate interface enabled significantly higher current density cycling. By pairing the dense aluminum pellet current collector with a sodium borohydride solid electrolyte, reversible cycling was achieved for capacities as high as 7 mAh·cm -2 (62 µm of sodium) due to

the electrochemically stable and dense solid electrolyte. Using a low-cost NaCrO2 cathode, an anode-free  sodium  all-solid-state  full-cell  battery  was  demonstrated  to  cycle  several  hundred cycles. This work elucidates the four critical factors that govern the electrochemical performance of anode-free solid-state cell designs to guide future developments of high energy all-solid-state batteries. We believe that this work can guide the discovery and implementation of other anodefree battery chemistries and serve as an example that sodium can compete with and complement traditional lithium-ion batteries.

## Acknowledgements

This  work  was  performed  in  part  at  the  San  Diego  Nanotechnology  Infrastructure  (SDNI)  of UCSD, a member of the National Nanotechnology Coordinated Infrastructure, which is supported by the National Science Foundation (grant ECCS-2025752). The authors acknowledge the use of facilities  and  instrumentation  at  the  UC  Irvine  Materials  Research  Institute  (IMRI),  which  is supported in part by the National Science Foundation through the UC Irvine Materials Research Science  and  Engineering  Center  (DMR-2011967).  Specifically,  the  XPS  work  was  performed using  instrumentation  funded  in  part  by  the  National  Science  Foundation  Major  Research Instrumentation  Program  under  grant  no.  CHE-1338173.  Xe  plasma  FIB  experiments  were conducted at  the  University  of  Southern  California  in  the  Core  Center  of  Excellence  in  Nano Imaging. We also acknowledge the use of the UCSD Crystallography Facility.

Funding : Funding to support this work was provided by the National Science Foundation through the Partnerships for Innovation (PFI) grant no. 2044465.

Competing Interests :  A  patent  application  for  this  work  has  been  filed  by  G.D.  and  Y.S.M. through UC San Diego's Office of Innovation and Commercialization.

## References

1. Nishi, Y. The Dawn of Lithium-Ion Batteries. Electrochem. Soc. Interface 25 , 71 (2016).
2. Hirsh, H. S. et al. Sodium-Ion Batteries Paving the Way for Grid Energy Storage. Advanced Energy Materials 10 , 2001274 (2020).
3. Qian, J. et al. Anode-Free Rechargeable Lithium Metal Batteries. Advanced Functional Materials 26 , 7094-7102 (2016).
4. Tang, S. et al. A room-temperature sodium metal anode enabled by a sodiophilic layer. Nano Energy 48 , 101-106 (2018).
5. Matios, E., Wang, H., Wang, C. &amp; Li, W. Enabling Safe Sodium Metal Batteries by Solid Electrolyte Interphase Engineering: A Review. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 58 , 9758-9780 (2019).
6. Gao, L., Chen, J., Chen, Q. &amp; Kong, X. The chemical evolution of solid electrolyte interface in sodium metal batteries. Science Advances 8 , eabm4606 (2022).
7. Wang, Y. et al. Developments and Perspectives on Emerging High-Energy-Density Sodium-Metal Batteries. Chem 5 , 2547-2570 (2019).
8. Lu, Z., Yang, H., Yang, Q.-H., He, P. &amp; Zhou, H. Building a Beyond Concentrated Electrolyte for HighVoltage Anode-Free Rechargeable Sodium Batteries. Angewandte Chemie International Edition 61 , e202200410 (2022).
9. From Lithium-Metal toward Anode-Free Solid-State Batteries: Current Developments, Issues, and Challenges - Heubner - 2021 - Advanced Functional Materials - Wiley Online Library. https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/adfm.202106608.
10.  Shen, F., Dixit, M. B., Xiao, X. &amp; Hatzell, K. B. Effect of Pore Connectivity on Li Dendrite Propagation within LLZO Electrolytes Observed with Synchrotron X-ray Tomography. ACS Energy Lett. 3 , 10561061 (2018).

11.  Kazyak, E. et al. Li Penetration in Ceramic Solid Electrolytes: Operando Microscopy Analysis of Morphology, Propagation, and Reversibility. Matter 2 , 1025-1048 (2020).
12.  Luo, S. et al. Growth of lithium-indium dendrites in all-solid-state lithium-based batteries with sulfide electrolytes. Nat Commun 12 , 6968 (2021).
13.  Yuan, C. et al. Coupled crack propagation and dendrite growth in solid electrolyte of all-solid-state battery. Nano Energy 86 , 106057 (2021).
14.  Liu, S. et al. Porous Al Current Collector for Dendrite-Free Na Metal Anodes. Nano Lett. 17 , 58625868 (2017).
15.  Yun, Q. et al. Chemical Dealloying Derived 3D Porous Current Collector for Li Metal Anodes. Advanced Materials 28 , 6932-6939 (2016).
16.  Deysher, G. et al. Evaluating Electrolyte-Anode Interface Stability in Sodium All-Solid-State Batteries. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 14 , 47706-47715 (2022).
17.  Duchêne, L. et al. A highly stable sodium solid-state electrolyte based on a dodeca/deca-borate equimolar mixture. Chemical Communications 53 , 4195-4198 (2017).
18.  Wang, M. J., Chang, J.-Y., Wolfenstine, J. B. &amp; Sakamoto, J. Analysis of elastic, plastic, and creep properties of sodium metal and implications for solid-state batteries. Materialia 12 , 100792 (2020).
19.  Schlenker, R. et al. Understanding the Lifetime of Battery Cells Based on Solid-State Li6PS5Cl Electrolyte Paired with Lithium Metal Electrode. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 12 , 20012-20025 (2020).
20.  Yang, Z. et al. Developing a high-voltage electrolyte based on conjuncto-hydroborates for solid-state sodium batteries. J. Mater. Chem. A 10 , 7186-7194 (2022).
21.  Jin, M., Yang, Z., Cheng, S. &amp; Guo, Y. Fast Sodium-Ion Conduction in a Novel Conjuncto-Hydroborate of Na4B20H18. ACS Appl. Energy Mater. 5 , 15578-15585 (2022).

22.  Kasemchainan, J. et al. Critical stripping current leads to dendrite formation on plating in lithium anode solid electrolyte cells. Nat. Mater. 18 , 1105-1111 (2019).
23.  Su, Y. et al. A more stable lithium anode by mechanical constriction for solid state batteries. Energy Environ. Sci. 13 , 908-916 (2020).
24.  Bonnick, P. et al. A high performance all solid state lithium sulfur battery with lithium thiophosphate solid electrolyte. J. Mater. Chem. A 7 , 24173-24179 (2019).
25.  Fan, X. et al. Fluorinated solid electrolyte interphase enables highly reversible solid-state Li metal battery. Science Advances 4 , eaau9245 (2018).
26.  Liang, J. et al. An Air-Stable and Dendrite-Free Li Anode for Highly Stable All-Solid-State SulfideBased Li Batteries. Advanced Energy Materials 9 , 1902125 (2019).
27.  Zhang, Z. et al. All-in-one improvement toward Li6PS5Br-Based solid electrolytes triggered by compositional tune. Journal of Power Sources 410-411 , 162-170 (2019).
28.  Garcia-Mendez, R., Mizuno, F., Zhang, R., Arthur, T. S. &amp; Sakamoto, J. Effect of Processing Conditions of 75Li2S-25P2S5 Solid Electrolyte on its DC Electrochemical Behavior. Electrochimica Acta 237 , 144-151 (2017).
29.  Zhang, Z. et al. One-step solution process toward formation of Li6PS5Cl argyrodite solid electrolyte for all-solid-state lithium-ion batteries. Journal of Alloys and Compounds 812 , 152103 (2020).
30.  Pang, B. et al. Ag nanoparticles incorporated interlayer enables ultrahigh critical current density for Li6PS5Cl-based all-solid-state lithium batteries. Journal of Power Sources 563 , 232836 (2023).
31.  Wu, M. et al. In situ formed LiF-Li3N interface layer enables ultra-stable sulfide electrolyte-based allsolid-state lithium batteries. Journal of Energy Chemistry 79 , 272-278 (2023).
32.  Subramanian, Y., Rajagopal, R., Kang, S. &amp; Ryu, K.-S. Enhancement of lithium argyrodite interface stability through MoO2 substitution and its application in lithium solid state batteries. Journal of Alloys and Compounds 925 , 166596 (2022).

33.  Zou, C. et al. LiAlO2-coated LiNi0.8Co0.1Mn0.1O2 and chlorine-rich argyrodite enabling highperformance all-solid-state lithium batteries at suitable stack pressure. Ceramics International 49 , 443-449 (2023).
34.  Subramanian, Y., Rajagopal, R. &amp; Ryu, K.-S. Blending a Li3N/Li3YCl6 solid electrolyte with Li6PS5Cl argyrodite structure to improve interface stability and electrochemical performance in Lithium solid-state batteries. Journal of Alloys and Compounds 940 , 168867 (2023).
35.  Liu, Y. et al. Revealing the Impact of Cl Substitution on the Crystallization Behavior and Interfacial Stability of Superionic Lithium Argyrodites. Advanced Functional Materials 32 , 2207978 (2022).
36.  Lewis, J. A. et al. Role of Areal Capacity in Determining Short Circuiting of Sulfide-Based Solid-State Batteries. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 14 , 4051-4060 (2022).
37.  Wang, G. et al. Hydrolysis-resistant and Anti-dendritic halide composite Li3PS4-LiI solid electrolyte for all-solid-state lithium batteries. Electrochimica Acta 428 , 140906 (2022).
38.  Zhao, B. et al. Stabilizing Li7P3S11/lithium metal anode interface by in-situ bifunctional composite layer. Chemical Engineering Journal 429 , 132411 (2022).
39.  Wu, M., Liu, G. &amp; Yao, X. Oxygen doped argyrodite electrolyte for all-solid-state lithium batteries. Applied Physics Letters 121 , 203904 (2022).
40.  Kim, H.-M., Subramanian, Y. &amp; Ryu, K.-S. Improved electrochemical and air stability performance of SeS2 doped argyrodite lithium superionic conductors for all-solid-state lithium batteries. Electrochimica Acta 442 , 141869 (2023).
41.  Ni, Y., Huang, C., Liu, H., Liang, Y. &amp; Fan, L.-Z. A High Air-Stability and Li-Metal-Compatible Li3+2xP1-xBixS4-1.5xO1.5x Sulfide Electrolyte for All -Solid-State Li-Metal Batteries. Advanced Functional Materials 32 , 2205998 (2022).
42.  Orsini, F. et al. In situ Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) observation of interfaces within plastic lithium batteries. Journal of Power Sources 76 , 19-29 (1998).

43.  Orsini, F. et al. In situ SEM study of the interfaces in plastic lithium cells. Journal of Power Sources 81-82 , 918-921 (1999).
44.  Seong, I. W., Hong, C. H., Kim, B. K. &amp; Yoon, W. Y. The effects of current density and amount of discharge on dendrite formation in the lithium powder anode electrode. Journal of Power Sources 178 , 769-773 (2008).
45.  Zhou, C. et al. Polymorphism, ionic conductivity and electrochemical properties of lithium closo deca- and dodeca-borates and their composites, Li 2 B 10 H 10 -Li 2 B 12 H 12. Journal of Materials Chemistry A 10 , 16137-16151 (2022).
46.  Barai, P. et al. The Role of Local Inhomogeneities on Dendrite Growth in LLZO-Based Solid Electrolytes. J. Electrochem. Soc. 167 , 100537 (2020).
47.  Lu, Z. &amp; Ciucci, F. Metal Borohydrides as Electrolytes for Solid-State Li, Na, Mg, and Ca Batteries: A First-Principles Study. Chem. Mater. 29 , 9308-9319 (2017).
48.  Samsonov, G. V. Handbook of the Physicochemical Properties of the Elements . (Springer Science &amp; Business Media, 2012).
49.  Tan, D. H. S. et al. Carbon-free high-loading silicon anodes enabled by sulfide solid electrolytes. Science 373 , 1494-1499 (2021).
50.  Randau, S. et al. Benchmarking the performance of all-solid-state lithium batteries. Nat Energy 5 , 259-270 (2020).
51.  Zhou, L. et al. High areal capacity, long cycle life 4 V ceramic all-solid-state Li-ion batteries enabled by chloride solid electrolytes. Nat Energy 7 , 83-93 (2022).
52.  Zhou, L. et al. A new halospinel superionic conductor for high-voltage all solid state lithium batteries. Energy Environ. Sci. 13 , 2056-2063 (2020).
53.  Zhou, L., Assoud, A., Zhang, Q., Wu, X. &amp; Nazar, L. F. New Family of Argyrodite Thioantimonate Lithium Superionic Conductors. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 141 , 19002-19013 (2019).

54.  Ham, S.-Y. et al. Assessing the critical current density of all-solid-state Li metal symmetric and full cells. Energy Storage Materials 55 , 455-462 (2023).
55.  Stack Pressure Considerations for Room-Temperature All-Solid-State Lithium Metal Batteries - Doux - 2020 - Advanced Energy Materials - Wiley Online Library. https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/aenm.201903253?casa\_token=hUbMmQF3YUAAAAA:3dR0SiRByWsFtUcJaDs3yTH8w7nLt3nEOULPXYDhel91bw0FPxa26yhBf0S4HUpBoXu ghPneGzHhoil2.
56.  LePage, W. S. et al. Lithium Mechanics: Roles of Strain Rate and Temperature and Implications for Lithium Metal Batteries. J. Electrochem. Soc. 166 , A89 (2019).
57.  Ridley, P. et al. Glass-Ceramic Sodium-Deficient Chlorides with High Sodium-ion Conductivity. Preprint at https://doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2022-x7llq (2022).