## Exceptional Superionic Conductivity in Disordered Sodium Decahydrocloso -decaborate

Terrence J.   Udovic  ,*   Motoaki   Matsuo  ,   Wan Si   Tang  ,   Hui   Wu  ,   Vitalie   Stavila  , Alexei V.   Soloninin  ,   Roman V.   Skoryunov  ,   Olga A.   Babanova  ,   Alexander V.   Skripov  , John J.   Rush  ,   Atsushi   Unemoto  ,   Hitoshi   Takamura  ,   and   Shin-ichi   Orimo*

Recently, complex hydride salts undergoing solid-state, entropydriven,  order-disorder  transitions  have  been  shown  to  exhibit impressive  fast-ion  conduction  properties  as  a  result  of  the appearance  of  vacancy-rich  cation  sublattices  within  networks of  highly  mobile,  reorientationally  disordered  polyanions. [ 1  ] Initial  interest  has  mainly  focused  on  the  light-metal  Li  and Na  salts  possessing  tetrahydroborate  (BH 4 -)  polyanions  (see Figure 1 ),  such  as  LiBH 4  and Na 2 BH  4 NH  2 ,  as  well  as  related derivative materials. [  2-5  ] Very recently, it was discovered that Li and  Na  salts  possessing  the  larger  icosahedral  dodecahydrocloso -dodecaborate (B 12 H  12 2 -) anions (see Figure   1  ) also undergo order-disorder  phase  transitions, [  6,7  ]   with  Na 2 B 12 H  12 exhibiting  disorder-induced  superionic  conductivity  (approaching 0.1  S  cm -1 )  above  around  480  K. [ 8  ] This  conductivity  rivals that of traditional ceramic materials, Na β '-alumina solid electrolyte  (BASE),  and  Na  superionic  conductor  (NASICON),  as well  as  more  recent  Na 3 PS 4 -based  glass  ceramic  electrolytes,

Dr . T . J. Udovic, Dr. W . S. T ang, Dr. H. Wu, Dr. J. J. Rush NIST Center for Neutron Research

National Institute of Standards and Technology Gaithersburg  ,   MD   20899-6102  ,   USA

E-mail:   udovic@nist.gov

Dr. M. Matsuo, Prof. S. Orimo Institute for Materials Research Tohoku University

Sendai   980-8577  ,   Japan

E-mail:   orimo@imr.tohoku.ac.jp

Dr. W. S. Tang, Dr. H. Wu, Dr. J. J. Rush University of Maryland College Park  ,   MD   20742-2115  ,   USA

Department of Materials Science and Engineering

Dr. V. Stavila

Sandia National Laboratories

Livermore  ,   CA   94551  ,   USA

Dr. A. V. Soloninin, R. V. Skoryunov, Dr. O. A. Babanova, Dr. A. V. Skripov Institute of Metal Physics

Ural Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences Ekaterinburg   620990  ,   Russia

Dr. A. Unemoto, Prof. S. Orimo WPI-Advanced Institute for Materials Research Tohoku University

Sendai   980-8577  ,   Japan Prof. H. Takamura Graduate School of Engineering

Tohoku University

Sendai   980-8579  ,   Japan

DOI: 10.1002/adma.201403157

all  currently  of  considerable  interest  for  use  in  Na-ion  batteries. [  9-11  ] The  pronounced  superionicity  and  relatively  low conduction barrier for disordered Na 2 B 12 H  12 are probably due, in part, to the larger size (and roughly spherical shape) of the B 12 H  12 2 -anions compared with the substantially smaller BH 4 -anions  (see  Figure    1  )  present  in  other  investigated  fast-ion conductors. [ 1  ] These  types  of  large  polyanion  compounds  represent  a  potentially  fertile  area  for  discovering  new  materials with  superionic  conductivities,  but  with  lower  transition  temperatures. Here we report our fi  nding that sodium decahydrocloso -decaborate  (Na 2 B 10 H  10 ),  a  related  sodium  salt  containing large, ellipsoidal-shaped, B 10 H  10 2 -anions (see Figure   1  ), forms a  disordered,  face-centered-cubic  (fcc)  phase  above  ca.  360  K, possessing a vacancy-rich Na + cation sublattice. This cation sublattice is highly mobile within the spacious corridors formed by the  large  B 10 H  10 2 -anions  and  exhibits  remarkable  superionic conductivity  (e.g., σ ≈ 0.01  S  cm -1 at  383  K)  to  substantially lower  temperatures  than  for  Na 2 B 12 H  12 .  This  conductivity  is more than an order of magnitude higher than that of all other solid-state  Na-based  complex-hydride  materials  investigated  to date in this temperature region. [ 1  ] As  such, this discovery represents a major advancement in the fi  eld of solid-state Na + fastion conduction at technologically relevant device temperatures.

Figure 2 shows  differential  scanning  calorimetry  (DSC) results for  Na 2 B 10 H  10 after several heating/cooling cycles. There  is  a  clear  reversible  transition,  fi  rst  observed  by  Bonnetot et al., [  12  ]   with minor hysteresis. After a number of cycles to  500  K,  the  hysteresis  decreases  and  the  onset  temperature stabilizes  near  360  K  upon  both  heating  and  cooling.  A  slow attenuation of the DSC features begins to occur upon repeated cycling to temperatures near 600 K.

Figure 3 shows the neutron powder diffraction (NPD) result for  a  partially  deuterated  Na 2 11 B 10 H  10 sample  at  410  K,  above the  phase  transition.  Table  S1  in  the  Supporting  Information lists  the  corresponding  structural  parameters.  The  Rietveldrefi  ned model confi  rms transformation from the known, lowT ,  ordered  monoclinic  structure [ 13  ] (not  shown)  to  a  highT disordered  structure  with  Na + cations  partially  occupying  a variety  of  interstitial  sites  within  an  fcc  lattice  of  orientationally  disordered  anions.  Neutron-scattering  Fourier  difference maps  initially  suggested  that  the  broad  distribution  of  cation positions and the inclusion of the three most intense positions were ultimately necessary to attain a good model fi  t to the data. Furthermore, the refi  nements suggested extensive anion orientational  disorder,  which  could  be  represented  in  various  ways via multiple B and H positions. The model refl  ects the simplest

Adv. Mater. 2014 , 26 , 7622-7626

Figure 1. Geometries and approximate relative sizes of BH 4 -, B 10 H  10 2 -, and B 12 H  12 2 -anions, each shown from top and side views. The boron and hydrogen atoms are denoted by the green and pink spheres, respectively.

Na 2 B 12 H  12 . [  7,15  ] Indeed, the inset in Figure   4 showing  a  quasielastic neutron  scattering (QENS) spectrum for the disordered phase at 375 K indicates a quasielastic component with a  Lorentzian  linewidth  of  about  41(1)  µeV FWHM,  which  refl  ects  a  jump  correlation frequency  on  the  order  of  3 × 10 10 s -1 .  The ratio  of  elastic  and  total  scattering  intensities (which is also consistent with the ratio of FWS neutron  counts  in  the  disordered  and ordered phases from Figure   4  ) suggests that, besides  the  B 10 H  10 2 -reorientational  jumps around  the  long  axis,  two-fold  anion  fl  ips leading to exchanges of apical H atom positions are also occurring.

We also probed the Na + dynamical behavior  in  Na 2 B 10 H  10 by 23   Na  NMR  measurements. Figure 5 shows  the 23 Na spin-lattice  relaxation  rate R 1 at  the  resonance  frequency  of ω /2 π = 23  MHz  as  a  function  of T -1 . The general features of the behavior of R 1 for Na 2 B 10 H  10  resemble those for Na 2 B 12 H  12 at the phase transition. [ 16  ] Here, R 1 exhibits a jump accompanied by a change in sign of its temperature dependence. Such behavior indicates that the transition from the ordered to representation  of  six  approximately  superimposed  anion  orientations, each equally probable. In particular, the six possible anion orientations are aligned in pairs with their long axes oriented  along  any  one  of  the  three  orthogonal  crystallographic axes.  The  members  of  each  pair  are  azimuthally  offset  from each other by 45 ° about their long axes. Each B and H position in the structure is 1/3 occupied, being shared by two of the six possible orientations.

Anion  dynamical  behavior  was  probed  by  neutron  elasticscattering  fi  xed-window  scans  (FWSs) [  14  ] of  Na 2 11 B 10 H  10 .  The results in Figure 4 suggest that a dramatic change in B 10 H  10 2 -anion  reorientational  mobility  occurs  upon  phase  transformation.  In  particular,  the  high  elastic  neutron  counts  in  the lowT ordered  phase  suggest  anion  reorientational  jump  frequencies  less  than  10 8 s -1 ,  whereas  the  roughly  80%  lower counts  in  the  highT disordered  phase  suggest  an  orders-ofmagnitude enhancement in jump frequencies to greater than 10 10 s -1   . This is reminiscent of the FWS behavior observed for

Figure 2. Characteristic DSC measurements (2 K min -1 )  for  Na 2 B 10 H  10 after several heating and cooling cycles up to 410 K.

Adv. Mater. 2014 , 26 , 7622-7626

Figure 3. Experimental (circles), fi  tted (line), and difference (lower line) NPD  profi  les  for  Na 2 11 B 10 (H 0.73 D  0.27 ) 10 at  410K  ( λ = 2.077  Å; Fm -3 m ; a = 9.8426(8) Å; R wp = 0.0123; R p = 0.0104; χ 2 = 0.817). The vertical bars indicate the calculated positions of the Bragg peaks. Inset: Disordered structure. H atoms are omitted for clarity. B atoms are denoted by the green spheres. Anions are centered at 4a (0  0  0).  Different  Na + cation positions  are  denoted  by  the  red  [tetrahedral  (t)  sites  at 8c (¼  ¼  ¼)], yellow [octahedral (o) sites at 4b (½ 0 0)], and blue [intermediate (i) sites at 24d (¼ ¼ 0) between two t sites] spheres. The sphere sizes are proportional to the partial occupancies of 0.58(1), 0.28(3), and 0.09(1) for the t, o, and i sites, respectively.

Figure 4. Neutron  elastic-scattering fi  xed-window  scan  at 0.8  µeV (FWHM)  instrumental  resolution  for  Na 2 11 B 10 H  10   upon  heating  and cooling at 0.25 K min -1   , at a neutron momentum transfer Q of 0.87 Å -1 . The inset shows a quasielastic scattering spectrum at 375 K at the same Q value, at 79 µeV (FWHM) instrumental resolution. The fi  t (red) to the data  (black)  is  composed  of  elastic  (white)  and  quasielastic  (orange) contributions.

the disordered phase is accompanied by an abrupt increase in the Na + jump rate τ d -1 . The expected R 1 ( T ) maximum is 'folded'; i.e.,  because of the abrupt increase in τ d -1 at  the  phase transition, there is a jump directly from the lowT slope to the highT slope of the R 1 ( T ) peak. On the lowT slope, R 1 is proportional to τ d -1 ;  on the highT slope, R 1 is  proportional to τ d .  From the two slopes, we obtain activation energies for Na + jumps in the ordered and disordered phases of 750(20) meV and 190(10) meV, respectively.  Although  we  cannot  reliably  determine  the  absolute values of τ d -1 due to the 'folded' nature of the R 1 ( T ) peak, the data do allow us to conclude that the Na +  jump rate exceeds ω ≈ 1.5 × 10 8 s -1 just  above  the  phase  transition.  Moreover, the  very  small 23 Na  NMR  linewidth  (0.2  kHz  full-width  halfmaximum  (FWHM))  observed  in  the  disordered  phase  confi  rms that the Na +  cations are undergoing long-range diffusion.

To characterize the Na 2 B 10 H  10  conduction behavior, we carried out AC impedance measurements between 295 K and 423 K using a pressed disk of polycrystalline Na 2 B 10 H  10  powder with either  gold  or  (similarly  performing)  molybdenum  foil  contacts.  Cross-sectional  SEM  images  of  the  pelletized  sample  in Figure S1 of the Supporting Information confi  rm that intimate

Figure 5. The 23 Na spin-lattice relaxation rate R 1 versus T -1 for Na 2 B 10 H  10 measured at 23 MHz. The solid lines show Arrhenius fi  ts to the data for the ordered and disordered phases.

Figure  6. T -dependent  ionic  conductivity  of  Na 2 B 10 H  10   compared  with that  for  other  related  materials:  Na 2 B 12 H  12 , [ 8  ] Na 2 BH  4 NH  2 , [  4  ]   NaBH 4 , [ 4  ] and LiBH 4 . [  2  ]  Inset: Complex impedance plots of Na 2 B 10 H  10 measured at various temperatures during heating.

contacts  among  the  particles  were  achieved.  Na 2 B 10 H  10 can be  easily  pelletized  without  further  sintering,  as  has  been reported for LiBH 4 and other complex hydrides. [  1 , 5  ] The results are  shown in Figure 6 for  the  gold  contacts.  The  inset  shows typical complex impedance plots at various temperatures. They consist  of  an  arc  in  the  high-frequency  region  and  a  spike  in the  low-frequency region due to contributions from the bulk/ grain  boundaries  and  the  electrode,  respectively.  The  results suggest  that  Na 2 B 10 H  10 ,  similar  to  Na 2 B 12 H  12 , [ 8  ] behaves  like a  typical  ionic  conductor.  The  temperature  dependence  of  the conductivity  indicates  dramatic  superionic  conductivity  above the  hysteretic  order-disorder  transition  near  373  K,  rising two orders of magnitude higher than that in the lowT phase. This behavior is superior to that of other investigated complex hydride materials. Indeed, the conductivity exhibits a value of about  0.01  S  cm -1 at  383  K,  which  is  about  25 × greater  than that  of  Na 2 BH  4 NH  2 (4 × 10 -4 S  cm -1 ). [ 4  ] A  conductivity  above 0.1 S cm -1  at 500 K is suggested by extrapolation of the lowerT data.  The  activation  energy  for  conduction  is  evaluated  to be  0.47  eV,  which  is  higher  than  that  reported  for  Na 2 B 12 H  12 (0.21  eV) [ 8  ] but  lower  than  those  reported  for  Na 2 BH  4 NH  2 (0.61  eV) [ 4,8  ] and  the  highT phase  of  LiBH 4 (0.53  eV). [ 2  ] Nevertheless,  any  rationalization  of  the  differences  based  solely on anion size is complicated by the substantial differences in structure and conduction pathways.

It should be noted that the NMR-derived activation energies discussed above refl  ect the average microscopic barriers for all cation diffusional jumps between neighboring sites within the Na 2 B 10 H  10 lattice,  some of which may have little effect on the macroscopic  conductivity  barrier.  In  contrast,  the  latter  barrier  is  more  refl  ective  of  an  overall  rate-limiting  step,  such  as a particular type of cation jump within the material required to

www.MaterialsViews.com maintain conduction pathways or cation transport, e.g., across grain  boundaries  (although  such  grain-boundary  bottlenecks are believed to be small in the present system).

The superionic conductivity of disordered Na 2 B 10 H  10 is consistent  with  the  relatively  small  activation  energy  for  Na + diffusion  within  the  liquid-like  cation  sublattice.  Again,  similar to disordered Na 2 B 12 H  12, [ 8  ] the overly large size and spheroidal shape  of  the  polyanions  result  in  less  restrictive  interstitial pathways  and,  hence,  reduced  Na + diffusional bottlenecks between the various cation sites within the close-packed anion sublattice.

As  for  the  other  disordered  complex  hydrides,  the  reorientationally mobile anions associated with superionic Na 2 B 10 H  10 may  also  lower  the  cation  diffusional  barrier  by  providing  a dynamically cooperative environment for cation jumps within the  voids  of  the  anion  sublattice.  Indeed,  at  least  an  order-ofmagnitude-higher  anion  reorientational  jump  rate  compared with the Na +  diffusional jump rate provides a dynamic environment where the anions can behave as 'lubricants' for cation diffusive motions.

A  comparison  of  the  relative  sizes  of  the  B 10 H  10 2 -and B 12 H  12 2 -anions  in  Figure    1  indicates  a  similar  maximum dimension for each anion. In fact,  the  lattice  constants  for the disordered fcc Na 2 B 10 H  10  and body-centered cubic (bcc) Na  2 B 12 H  12 structures [  7  ]   indicate that both disordered anions possess  similar  spherical  packing  radii  of ≈ 3.5  Å.  This makes  the  small  190  meV  activation  energy  for  Na + diffusion  in  Na 2 B 10 H  10 particularly  noteworthy,  since  it  is  less than half that of Na 2 B 12 H  12  (410 meV). [  16  ]   Such a difference may  be  the  result  of  the  different  natures  of  the  diffusion saddle points inherent within the fcc and bcc structures, but may  also  signal  a  local  geometric  advantage  that  the  lessspherical  B 10 H  10 2 -anions  have  over  their  more  spherical relatives.  In  particular,  within  a  cubic  structure,  one  might expect  each  of  the  more-ellipsoidal  B 10 H  10 2 -anions  to  take up  slightly  less  space  in  directions  perpendicular  to  their long  axes  than  the  more  spherical  B 12 H  12 2 -anions.  On  a local level, this would allow more free space between anions for  cation  diffusion.  The  QENS  results  are  consistent  with a  locally  ellipsoidal  anion,  by  suggesting  that  each  anion retains a particular orientation of its long axis over at least a nanosecond timescale.

Much needs to be done to provide a better understanding of the superionic properties of this new class of conducting materials.  For  example,  since  Na 2 B 10 H  10 possesses  a  much  lower order-disorder  phase-transition  temperature  than  Na 2 B 12 H  12 , one  might  think  that  the  lighter-metal  analogue,  Li 2 B 10 H  10 , would  also  possess  a  lower  order-disorder  phase-transition temperature than Li 2 B 12 H  12 , [  6,7  ] thus enhancing the stability of the  disordered,  fast-ion-conducting  structure.  Our  Li 2 B 10 H  10 DSC  measurements  suggest  the  contrary.  Rather,  Li 2 B 10 H  10 appears  to  possess  a  slightly  higher  transition  temperature than  Li 2 B 12 H  12 does,  leading  to  an  unstable  disordered  structure, which makes it unsuitable as a solid-state, Li + -conducting electrolyte. However, the addition of other anions or cations to Li 2 B 10 H  10 and  to  Na 2 B 10 H  10 may  lead  to  hybrid  materials  displaying even lower transition temperatures than seen here for pure  Na 2 B 10 H  10 .  We  are  currently  pursuing  such  potentially favorable modifi  cations.

Adv. Mater. 2014 , 26 , 7622-7626

For all  these  disordered  materials,  a  more  thorough  understanding  of  the  relationship  of  structural  disorder  and  anion reorientational  mobility  to  cation  diffusion  and  conductivity will  benefi  t  from  future  fi  rst-principles  molecular-dynamics calculations, [  1,17,18  ] which  may  in  turn  lead  to  a  more  rational pathway to develop improved modifi  ed materials.

In  conclusion,  the  discovery  of  very  high  superionic  conductivity  in  Na 2 B 10 H  10 that  persists  to  temperatures  as  low  as 360  K  is  a  marked  improvement  over  Na 2 B 12 H  12 and  other complex  hydrides.  Although  hygroscopic,  Na 2 B 10 H  10  remains air-stable  at  room  temperature  with  no  noticeable  degradation  in  its  diffraction  pattern  up  to  at  least  500  K.  DSC  indicates  that  the  compound  decomposes/polymerizes  with  some mass loss of presumably H 2 at around 850 K. Preliminary cyclic voltammetry measurements indicate that ordered Na 2 B 10 H  10 is electrochemically stable up to at least 4 V at 353 K and disordered Na 2 B 10 H  10 up to at least 5 V at 393 K (see Figure S2 in the Supporting Information). Its favorable properties and high conductivity  warrant  a  serious  investigation  of  Na 2 B 10 H  10 's applicability  to  next-generation  solid-state  Na-ion  battery  technologies. Based on these results, successful future searches for related materials with even better cation conductivity properties may  be  enhanced  by  the  inclusion  of  similar-  or  even  largersized polyanions compared with B 10 H  10 2 -.

## Experimental Section

Synthesis : 11 Boron-enriched  Na 2 11 B 10 H  10 (and  partially  deuterated Na  2 11 B 10 H  10 )  was  synthesized  as  follows:  the  triethylammonium  salt (Et 3 NH)  2 [ 11 B 10 H  10 ] was synthesized via reaction of 11 B 10 H  14 (Katchem [ 19  ] and  triethylamine  in para -xylene  at  refl  ux.  The  crude  product  was recrystallized  from  water/EtOH  and  dried  in  vacuum  (10  mTorr)  at room temperature for 16 h. The (Et 3 NH)  2 [ 11 B 10 H  10 ] was then converted into  the  corresponding  acid  (H 3 O) 2 [ 11 B 10 H  10 ]  by  ion  exchange  using an  Amberlite  resin  in  H + -form.  Aqueous  Na 2 11 B 10 H  10 was  prepared  by neutralization  of  (H 3 O) 2 [ 11 B 10 H  10 ]  with  0.1    M  NaOH  until  a  pH  value of  7  was  reached.  The  solvent  was  removed  on  a  rotary  evaporator  at 323 K. Unlabeled Na 2 B 10 H  10   was synthesized using a similar approach. The resulting hydrated materials were dried under vacuum at 433 K for 16 h. For the partially  deuterated  sample, a single exchange treatment was performed by dissolution and stirring for 3 h of 1 g of Na 2 11 B 10 H  10 in 20 mL of D 2 O slightly acidifi  ed by adding 50 µL of a saturated solution of  deuterochloric (DCl) acid in D 2   O. The resulting dried sample had a D:H ratio of only 27:73 as determined from refi  nement of the 20 K NPD pattern, yet led to some reduction of the incoherent neutron scattering background from the lighter H isotope.

Measurement Details : DSC measurements were made with a Netzsch (STA 449 F1 Jupiter) TGA-DSC under He fl  ow with Al sample pans.  The  neutron-scattering  measurements  were  performed  at  the National  Institute  of  Standards  and  Technology  Center  for  Neutron Research.  NPD  patterns  were  measured  on  the  BT-1  High-Resolution Powder Diffractometer using the Ge(311) monochromator at a neutron wavelength of 2.077 Å. Horizontal divergences of 60 ′ , 20 ′ , and 7 ′ of arc were  used  for  the  in-pile,  monochromatic-beam,  and  diffracted-beam collimators, respectively. The sample was contained in a 6 mm-diameter V can  inside  a  He  closed-cycle  refrigerator.  FWSs  were  measured  on the  High-Flux  Backscattering  Spectrometer  using  6.27  Å  wavelength neutrons,  with  a  resolution  of  0.8  µeV  FWHM.  QENS  spectra  were collected  at  270  K  (resolution  measurement)  and  375  K  on  the  Disk Chopper  Spectrometer using 4.08 Å wavelength neutrons with a resolution of 79 µeV FWHM. 23   Na NMR measurements were performed on the pulse spectrometer described earlier [ 16  ] at the frequency ω /2 π = 23 MHz. The nuclear spin-lattice relaxation rates were measured

using the saturation-recovery method. NMR spectra were recorded by Fourier  transforming  the  solid-echo  signals.  Ionic  conductivities  were determined in heating and cooling runs repeatedly in the temperature range between 303 K and 423 K by the AC complex-impedance method using  an  NF  FRA5097  frequency  response  analyzer  over  a  frequency range of 10 Hz to 10 MHz. All the measurements were performed under Ar. The powder sample was pressed into a pellet of 8 mm in diameter and 2 mm in thickness without sintering. The pellet density was about 1.17 g cm -3   , which is more than 95% of the density calculated from the lattice  parameters.  Au  or  Mo  foils  were  used  as  electrodes  and  were mechanically  fi  xed  on  both  faces  of  the  pellet.  The  resistances  of  the sample were obtained by least-square fi  ttings of a single arc in the highfrequency range using equivalent circuits of a parallel combination of a resistance  and  a  capacitance.  At  high  temperature,  since  only  a  spike caused by the electrode contribution was observed, the resistance values were calculated from the intercept of the spike. The cross-section of the pelletized sample was examined by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) (JEOL  JSM6009).  Cyclic  voltammetry  measurements  were  conducted at  scan  rates  of  5  mV  s -1 using  a  potentiostat/galvanostat  (Princeton VersaSTAT4)  with  a  Mo  disk  as  the  working  electrode  and  counter/ reference  electrodes  of  Na  or  Na-In  at  353  K  and  393  K,  respectively. Finally,  for  all  the  fi  gures,  standard  uncertainties  are  commensurate with the observed scatter in the data, if not explicitly designated by the vertical error bars.

## Supporting Information

Supporting  Information  is  available  from  the  Wiley  Online  Library  or from the author.

## Acknowledgements

This  work  was  performed,  in  part,  in  collaboration  between  members of  IEA  HIA  Task  32-Hydrogen-based  Energy  Storage.  The  authors gratefully  acknowledge  support  from  DOE  EERE  through  Grant  Nos. DE-EE0002978  and  DE-AC04-94AL85000;  the  Russian  Foundation  for Basic Research under Grant No. 12-03-00078; the U.S. Civilian Research &amp;  Development  Foundation  (CRDF  Global)  under  Award  No.  RUP17076-EK-12; the National Science Foundation (NSF) under Cooperative Agreement No. OISE-9531011; the Integrated Materials Research Center  for  the  Low-Carbon  Society  (LC-IMR),  Tohoku  University;  the Advanced Low Carbon Technology Research and Development Program (ALCA)  from  the  Japan  Science  and  Technology  Agency  (JST);  and JSPS  KAKENHI  under  Grant  Nos.  25220911  and  26820311.  This  work utilized  facilities  supported  in  part  by  the  NSF  under  Agreement  No.

www.MaterialsViews.com

DMR-0944772.  The  authors  also  thank  Dr.  Nina  Verdal  for  assistance with the QENS measurements.

Received:   July 14, 2014 Revised:   August 30, 2014 Published online: October 13, 2014

- [1]    A.    Unemoto  ,    M.    Matsuo  ,    S.    Orimo  , Adv.  Funct.  Mater. 2014 , 24 , 2267  .
- [2]    M.    Matsuo  ,    Y .    Nakamori  ,    S.    Orimo  ,    H.    Maekawa  ,    H.    T akamura  , Appl. Phys. Lett. 2007 , 91 ,   224103  .
- [3]    H. Maekawa  , M.    Matsuo  , H. Takamura  , M.    Ando  , Y. Noda  , T.   Karahashi  ,   S.   Orimo  , J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2009 , 131 ,   894  .
- [4]    M. Matsuo  , S. Kuromoto  , T. Sato  , H.    Oguchi  , H.    Takamura  , S.   Orimo  , Appl. Phys. Lett. 2012 , 100 ,   203904  .
- [5]    A. Unemoto  ,    S.    Yasaku  ,    G.    Nogami  ,    M.    T azawa  ,    M.    T aniguchi  , M.    Matsuo  ,    T . Ikeshoji  , S.    Orimo  , Appl.  Phys.  Lett. 2014 , 105 , 083901  .
- [6]    M. Paskevicius  , M. P. Pitt  , D. H. Brown  , D. A. Sheppard  , S.   Chumphongphan  ,   C. E.   Buckley  , Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2013 , 15 ,   15825  .
- [7]    N.    Verdal  ,    J.-H.    Her  ,    V .    Stavila  ,    A.  V .    Soloninin  ,    O.  A.    Babanova  , A. V.   Skripov  ,   T . J.   Udovic  ,   J. J.   Rush  , J. Solid State Chem. 2014 , 212 , 81  .
- [8]    T . J. Udovic  , M.    Matsuo  , A. Unemoto  , N.    Verdal  , V. Stavila  , A.  V.    Skripov  ,    J.  J.    Rush  ,    H.    T akamura  ,    S.    Orimo  , Chem.  Comm. 2014 , 50 ,   3750  .
- [9]    K. B.   Hueso  ,   M.   Armand  ,   T .   Rojo  , Energy Environ. Sci. 2013 , 6 ,   734  .
- [10]    A.    Hayashi  ,    K.    Noi  ,    A.    Sakuda  ,    M.    T atsumisago  , Nat.  Commun. 2012 , 3 ,   856  .
- [11]    N. Tanibata  , K. Noi  , A. Hayashi  , N. Kitamura  , Y. Idemoto  , M.   Tatsumisago  , ChemElectroChem 2014 , 1 ,   1130  .
- [12]    B.   Bonnetot  ,   H.   Mongeot  ,   A.   Aboukhassib  ,   F.   Lefebvre  , Inorg. Chim. Acta 1992 , 193 ,   21  .
- [13]    K.   Hofmann  ,   B.   Albert  , Z. Kristallogr. 2005 , 220 ,   142  .
- [14]    T .  J.    Udovic  ,    N.    Verdal  ,    J.  J.    Rush  ,    D.  J.    De Vries  ,    M.  R.    Hartman  , J. J.   Vajo  ,   A. F.   Gross  ,   A. V .   Skripov  , J. Alloys Compd. 2013 , 580 ,   S47  .
- [15]    N.   Verdal  ,   T . J.   Udovic  ,   V .   Stavila  ,   W. S.   Tang  ,   J. J.   Rush  ,   A. V .   Skripov  , J. Phys. Chem. C 2014 , 118 ,   17483  .
- [16]    A. V .   Skripov  ,   O. A.   Babanova  ,   A. V .   Soloninin  ,   V .   Stavila  ,   N.   Verdal  , T. J.   Udovic  ,   J. J.   Rush  , J. Phys. Chem. C 2013 , 117 ,   25961  .
- [17]    B. C.   Wood  ,   N.   Marzari  , Phys. Rev. Lett. 2006 , 97 ,   166401  .
- [18]    J. S. G.   Myrdal  ,   D.   Blanchard  ,   D.   Sveinbjö  rnsson  ,   T .   Vegge  , J. Phys. Chem C 2013 , 117 ,   9084  .
- [19]    The mention of all commercial suppliers is for clarity and does not imply recommendation or endorsement by NIST  .

Adv. Mater. 2014 , 26 , 7622-7626