## Exploring the soft cradle effect and ionic transport mechanisms in the LiMXCl4 superionic conductor family

## Graphical abstract

## Highlights

- d LiMXCl4 chemical substitutions are evaluated for stability and ionic conductivity
- d Meyer-Neldel analysis suggests potential for ionic conductivity to reach 100 mS/cm
- d Correlated rotational motion and Li hopping facilitates ionic conductivity

## Authors

KyuJung Jun, Grace Wei, Xiaochen Yang, Yu Chen, Gerbrand Ceder

## Correspondence

gceder@berkeley.edu

## In brief

Li-ion conductors with high ionic conductivity and electrochemical stability are key for safe, energy-dense all-solidstate batteries. In this work, we study the recently discovered Li-ion conductor LiMXCl4, exploring chemical substitutions in its framework. We demonstrate LiMXCl4's remarkable ionic conductivity to be driven by correlated motions between its polyhedra and Li ions. Our findings provide fundamental insights into LiMXCl4 and practical strategies to optimize these materials as solid electrolytes and catholytes in allsolid-state batteries.

## Article

## Exploring the soft cradle effect and ionic transport mechanisms in the LiMXCl4 superionic conductor family

KyuJung Jun, 1,2,3 Grace Wei, 1,2,3 Xiaochen Yang, 1,2 Yu Chen, 1,2 and Gerbrand Ceder 1,2,4, *

1 Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of California Berkeley, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA

2 Materials Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA

3 These authors contributed equally

4 Lead contact

*Correspondence: gceder@berkeley.edu

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matt.2025.102001

PROGRESS AND POTENTIAL Lithium-ion conductors with high ionic conductivity and electrochemical stability are critical for enabling safe, energy-dense all-solid-state batteries. LiMOCl4 (M = Nb/Ta) recently achieved impressive lithium-ion conductivity of 12.4 mS/cm at room temperature. However, the maximum possible ionic conductivity in this framework and the mechanisms driving such fast diffusion remain unclear. By substituting different cations (M) and anions (X) into LiMXCl4, we find that fluoro-chlorides may achieve higher stability without sacrificing conductivity, and that the framework could reach conductivities of up to 100 mS/cm. Moreover, we identify a ''soft cradle effect'' where M-octahedral chains, connected by weak van der Waals forces, tilt in sync with lithium-ion movements, facilitating transport. These findings reveal mechanisms enabling fast lithium-ion motion in LiMXCl4 and offer practical directions to optimize these materials as solid electrolytes and catholytes in all-solid-state batteries.

## SUMMARY

LiMXCl4, a recently discovered lithium superionic conductor, achieves Li conductivity up to 12.4 mS/cm at room temperature. Notably, LiNbOCl4 features flexible, rotating polyhedra, potentially explaining its high ionic conductivity. However, the generalizability of these findings across different chemistries and the direct link between polyhedra rotations and Li-ion mobility remain unclear. In this study, we explore various M-cation and X-anion substitutions in the LiMXCl4 system, identifying fluoro-chlorides as promising for enhancing electrochemical stability while maintaining high ionic conductivity. Meyer-Neldel analysis on ab initio simulations reveals that LiMXCl4 outperforms existing halide conductors, with projected conductivities of 10-100 mS/cm. Our probabilistic analysis of lithium-ion hops and small-angle tilting events reveals a ''soft cradle effect,'' where weakly bound M-octahedra tilt in conjunction with Li-ion hops, optimizing the energy landscape. This work provides fundamental insights into the factors driving high ionic conductivity in non-close-packed oxyhalide systems and suggests exciting directions for further improving these materials.

## INTRODUCTION

The global transition to renewable energy and the increasing energy demands on the electric grid necessitate the development of novel batteries with improved performance and safety. All solid-state batteries are a promising technology as they use inorganic solid electrolytes (SEs), which are safer compared with their flammable, liquid counterparts. In addition, when coupled with lithium metal anodes, the energy density can be significantly improved compared with current lithium-ion batteries. 1

An ideal solid electrolyte should demonstrate high ionic conductivity and stability across the wide range of lithium chemical potential that lithium ions experience in a full cell. However, previous theoretical and experimental studies have shown that no solid electrolyte material exhibits these criteria. 2 An alternative to this ''ideal solid electrolyte'' is to utilize two solid electrolyte materials: one with excellent cathodic stability at low voltage (SEanode) and another stable at high voltage (SEcathode or catholyte). 3 If these two materials are chemically compatible and have overlapping stability windows, this configuration can offer

improved stability compared with full cells employing a single solid electrolyte. For example, Zhou and Nazar demonstrated in 2022 that over 1,000 cycles can be achieved when using a halospinel-type chloride solid electrolyte as the catholyte and an argyrodite solid electrolyte as the separator against a Li/In anode. 3

For catholytes, high oxidative stability above 4 V is required. One candidate class of materials are the polyanion-based oxide materials such as NASICON-type Li1+xAlxTi2-x(PO4)3 or LiTa2PO8. However, processing oxides in a cathode composite is challenging. Their inability to deform plastically necessitates co-sintering with cathode active materials (CAM) to achieve good contact, 4,5 often resulting in the degradation of CAM particles and the decomposition of the solid electrolyte material.

As a possible alternative, close-packed chloride SEs have attracted significant attention due to their relatively high ionic conductivity (&gt;1 mS/cm), excellent oxidative stability, and mechanical softness, which facilitates the fabrication of a cathode composite. 6-9 Prior to 2023, no known halide materials achieved the ionic conductivities observed in state-of-the-art sulfide SEs (10-30 mS/cm). 10-12 This shortfall can be attributed to the close-packed anion arrangement of existing halide conductors, which provides highly symmetric lithium-ion sites that trap lithium ions and confines them to narrow, high-energy oct-tetoct diffusion channels. 13

In 2023, Tanaka et al. reported a new Li oxyhalide superionic conductor, LiMOCl4 (M = Nb/Ta), with high ionic conductivities up to 12.4 mS/cm. 14 Unlike most previously studied chloridebased superionic conductors, LiMOCl4 features a non-closepacked anion framework. The authors proposed that diffusion in LiMOCl4 occurs via a liquid-like conduction mechanism, allowing ions to move uncorrelated with one another. Recently, two separate works by Adams 15 and Singh et al. 16 investigated the LiNbOCl4 system using a combination of theoretical and experimental techniques. Adams, employing density functional theory (DFT) and empirical molecular dynamics simulations, demonstrated the high compressibility and rotational mobility of NbO2Cl4 polyhedra in the system. On the other hand, Singh et al., using X-ray and neutron diffraction, pair diffraction analysis, and molecular dynamics simulations, suggested that the flexible nature of the bonding between Nb-octahedra was advantageous for lithium-ion diffusion. However, the two studies offered conflicting structural refinements of LiNbOCl4, and their analyses were not extended to systems containing transition metals other than Nb. Consequently, there is a need to assess the LiMXCl4 family beyond the previously studied Nb and Ta systems to determine whether the earlier findings are generalizable across different chemistries. Furthermore, despite previous studies indicating significant tilting and rotational behavior of polyhedra in the LiNbOCl4 system, there is a lack of quantitative, probabilistic evidence directly linking these motions to Li-ion mobility.

In this work, we perform first-principles calculations and ab initio molecular dynamics (AIMD) simulations to investigate the thermodynamic and electrochemical stability, as well as the lithium-ion diffusivity and conductivity, of the LiMXCl4 family of superionic conductors (where M = Ta, Nb, Sb, Ti, Zr, Hf, Sn, and X = O, F, Cl) in stoichiometric, lithium-deficient, and lithium-excess compositions. We identify a mixed-anion frame-

work as key to stabilizing the oxyhalide structure and demonstrate the impact of aliovalent anion and cation substitutions on material properties. For example, substitution of high-valent cations Ta 5+ and Nb 5+ with lower valence Zr 4+ and Hf 4+ and O 2 /C0 with F /C0 may widen the electrochemical stability window while maintaining thermodynamic stability. Our findings indicate that all LiMXCl4 systems exhibit superionic conductivity at room temperature without requiring an excess or deficiency of lithium to activate their high conductivity. To probe the range of achievable ionic conductivities within the LiMXCl4 family, we perform a Meyer-Neldel analysis. 17 The Meyer-Neldel analysis accounts for the correlation between the conductivity prefactor and activation energy 18,19 and determines whether a system's ionic conductivity can be further improved by either lowering or raising its activation energy. The direction of this adjustment depends on the system's Meyer-Neldel energy: if it is high, lowering the activation energy will enhance conductivity; if it is low, raising the activation energy will have a similar effect. In our analysis, we find that the LiMXCl4 family has a high Meyer-Neldel energy, which provides access to an order of magnitude higher ionic conductivity compared with close-packed halides or LaCl3derived systems. Probabilistic analysis of the rotational dynamics at the picosecond timescale provides direct, quantitative evidence linking the high Li-ion conductivity in LiMXCl4 systems with the soft tilting motion of MX2Cl4 octahedral groups present in the material-a correlative motion referred to as the ''soft cradle effect.'' While all LiMXCl4 systems exhibit this effect, its extent varies significantly across different systems. By correlating the magnitude of the soft cradle effect with specific structural features in each system, we identify the key factors driving the high ionic conductivity observed in the LiMXCl4 family. Our findings not only provide the theoretical foundation for the effectiveness of the LiMXCl4 family as promising catholytes compatible with 4-V-class cathodes but also highlight an exciting direction toward further enhancing this class of materials.

## RESULTS

## Crystal structure of LiMXCl4

The crystal structure of LiMOCl4 is illustrated in Figure 1. LiMOCl4 consists of one-dimensional chains of cornerO -sharing MO2Cl4 octahedra, with Li occupying tetrahedral sites neighboring the Cl /C0 . These chains are connected via van der Waals bonding along the b and c directions, with mobile lithium ions occupying the void space between the chains.

Using an approach similar to previously developed compound discovery methods, 20 Tanaka et al. discovered LiMOCl4 (M = Nb, Ta) by performing double-substitution on LiVOF4 (V 5+ / Nb 5+ or Ta 5+ and O 2 /C0 / Cl /C0 ) from the Materials Project database. 14,21 LiVOF4 is a hypothetical compound in the orthorhombic Cmc21 space group that has yet to be synthesized (Materials Project ID: mp-850188). Initial structure refinement by Tanaka et al. mapped LiMOCl4 (M = Nb, Ta) to the same Cmc21 space group as LiVOF4, suggesting that the two directions perpendicular to the chain axis (b, c-direction in Figure 1) are not equivalent. However, a subsequent study by Adams 15 proposed an alternative structure model for LiNbOCl4 in the tetragonal I4/m space group. This model was based on the notion that the two perpendicular

## Figure 1. Crystal structure of LiMXCl4

(A and B) The crystal structure of LiTaOCl4 seen from the a -direction (direction of the chain axis) is shown in (A). View perpendicular to the a -direction is shown in (B), showing the 1-dimensional chains of MO2Cl4 octahedra. Large green spheres and brown spheres indicate Li and Ta cations, respectively. Small green spheres and red spheres indicate Cl and O anions respectively. Gray shaded area in (A) indicates the van der Waals bonding in the b - and c -direction.

directions to the [NbCl4O2/2 /C0 ] N chain may be equivalent, with disordered lithium occupancy between the chains. Adams' structure refinement based on the I4/m model resulted in a smaller, more symmetric unit cell with an improved weighted profile R factor (Rwp).

Recently, Singh and Wang et al. proposed a lower symmetry model for LiNbOCl4 in the Cc space group, where Nb is offcentered within the NbO2Cl4 octahedra, resulting in unequal Nb-O bond lengths along the direction of the chain axis ( a -direction in Figure 1). 16 To assess whether this lower symmetry structure is applicable to the entire LiMXCl4 (M = Ta, Nb, Sb, Ti, Zr, Hf, Sn, and X = O, F, Cl) family, we performed DFT relaxations for all our systems with various cation and anion substitutions following the structure model proposed by Tanaka et al. (denoted as ''nonshifted''). To explore the energetic preference of the off-centered M-cation position, we also performed relaxations after artificially

OPEN ACCESS

shifting the initial M-cation position of Tanaka et al.'s model upward along the chain axis (denoted as ''shifted'') to help the cation escape local energy minima (Note S1). Tables S1 and S2 show the energy differences (computed with the generalized-gradient approximation [GGA] and r 2 SCAN functionals, respectively) in eV/atom between the shifted and unshifted structures for all substitutions considered. Our results indicate that, in all our systems with cation and anion substitutions, M-cations are more stable in the unshifted structure or relax back to the unshifted position. The only exception is Nb in LiNbOCl4, where the shifted structure is more stable by approximately 12 meV/atom. Therefore, the lower symmetry structure is likely applicable only to LiNbOCl4, possibly due to a second-order Jahn-Teller effect as suggested by other work. 22,23

## Chemical substitutions and stability

To explore the possibility of chemical substitutions within the oxychloride structural framework, we analyzed the LiMXCl4 family of superionic conductors. In this family, M can either be a 5+ transition metal (Ta, Nb, Sb) with X = O, or a 4+ transition metal (Ti, Zr, Hf, Sn) with X = F or Cl. We did not consider Br or I substitutions due to their poor oxidative stability, 2,24 which would limit their use as catholytes. We also did not consider alternative structure types for the LiMXCl4 systems, which would require a comprehensive and generative analysis of the broader, unexplored phase space. Given the glassy, semi-amorphous nature of this oxychloride family during synthesis, 16,25 a thorough investigation of the different structural prototypes (i.e., different octahedral arrangements and connectivity) in this chemical space presents a promising area of further research. The compounds LiTaOCl4, LiNbOCl4, LiSbOCl4, LiTiFCl4, LiZrFCl4, LiSnFCl4, and LiHfFCl4 are denoted as LTOC, LNOC, LSOC, LTFC, LZFC, LSFC, and LHFC, respectively. The energetic preference for the arrangement of F and Cl within the octahedral chains was confirmed to be analogous to the Li(Nb/Ta)OCl4 systems, with F as the bridging atom and Cl occupying the terminal sites (Note S2 and Table S3).

The phase stability of all LiMXCl4 systems was determined by computing the energy above the convex hull, Ehull, using the lowest energy DFT-relaxed structure from the section ''crystal structure of oxychlorides with 1-dimensional van der Waals bonds,'' as presented in Figure 2A. Calculations were performed with both the r 2 SCAN meta -GGA and Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof (PBE) GGA functionals, with more details provided in the methods section. The r 2 SCAN meta -GGA calculations will be reported in the main text, and the tabulated results of both functionals are available in Tables S4 and S5. The compounds considered in the phase space for each system are provided in Note S3. The Ehull values for the experimentally observed structures LTOC and LNOC are 19.4 and 18.5 meV/atom, respectively, indicating that these energies are sufficiently low enough for the structures to be synthesizable using a ball milling approach. 14,16 Among the hypothetical compounds, LiHfFCl4 (with Ehull = 32.2 meV/atom) and LiZrFCl4 (with Ehull = 38.0 meV/atom) exhibit the most potential for synthesis. Although their E hull values are 10-20 meV/atom higher than the Ehull values for the experimentally observed LTOC and LNOC compounds, their competing phases are the experimentally synthesized

Figure 2. Thermodynamic and electrochemical stability of LiMXCl4 (M = Ta, Nb, Sb, Ti, Zr, Hf, Sn, X = O, F, Cl)

(A) The energy above the convex hull Ehull computed for LiMXCl4 systems with the r 2 SCAN meta -GGA function.

(B) Electrochemical stability windows computed for LiMXCl4 systems using the approach in Richards et al. and others. 2,28,29 The voltage is taken w.r.t. Li/Li + . The decomposition products at the reductive and oxidative limits are listed next to the respective stability window. Colors for (A) and (B) correspond to the type of substitution performed (orange = M 5+ / M 4+ and X / Cl substitution, cyan = M 5+ / M 4+ and X / F substitution, pink = M 5+ / M 5+ substitution).

close-packed halides Li2HfCl6 and Li2ZrCl6, which are compounds we introduced into the queried phase diagram. There are no experimentally reported crystalline Li-Ta-Cl or Li-Nb-Cl phases, which could explain the lower Ehull for LTOC and LNOC. When Li2HfCl6 and Li2ZrCl6 are not included in the phase diagram calculation, LHFC and LZFC's Ehull values become 12.2 meV/atom and 23.7 meV/atom, respectively, well within a conservative synthesizability limit of 30 meV/atom. 26,27

In general, we observe that phase stability in LiMXCl4 systems is impacted by both cation (M) and anion (X) substitutions. For instance, all pure chloride structures are highly unstable, with Ehull &gt; 60 meV/atom. F-substituted structures exhibit a broader range of stability, depending on the 4+ cation. The ordering of stable to least stable F-substituted structures by cation is Hf &gt; Zr &gt; Ti &gt; Sn. Cation substitution in the X = O system also affects the thermodynamic stability, with the stability ranking for

O-substituted structures by cation being: Nb &gt; Ta &gt; Sb. The Sb-substituted structure is rather unstable (67.4 meV/atom) compared with the Ta and Nb systems, due to the presence of crystalline Li-Sb-O and Li-Sb-Cl compounds on the hull. The absence of a metastable pure chloride system within this structural framework suggests that a mixed-anion framework may be necessary to stabilize the unique one-dimensional chain of octahedra characteristic of Li(Nb/Ta)OCl4. Given that the electronegativity of O and F is higher than that of Cl, it is plausible that the presence of a more electron-withdrawing anion at the octahedron apex connecting the chain is required for stability.

## Electrochemical stability

Electrochemical stability windows were computed for each LiMXCl4 system using the approaches of Richards et al. and Zhu et al. , 28,29 and their oxidative and reductive limits (vs. Li metal) alongside their predicted decomposition products are presented in Figure 2B. The tabulated data comprising reduction and oxidation limits is reported in Tables S6 and S7. For the experimental structures, LTOC and LNOC are calculated to be thermodynamically stable up to 4.06 V, making them both compatible with 4-V layered oxide cathodes. However, both systems display poor reductive stability, rendering them incompatible with Li metal. The predicted reaction products for LTOC decomposition at the reduction limit include LiCl, TaCl4, and LiTa4O8. While LiCl and TaCl4 are electrical insulators that may form a passivating layer, the reduced compound LiTa4O8 is predicted to have a very small band gap (Eg = 0.01 eV), potentially leading to the growth of the interface over time. In contrast, the decomposition of LNOC is predicted to produce passivating LiCl and NbCl2O, which has a larger, albeit not insulating, band gap of 0.91 eV. Although this suggests NbCl2O could be passivating, NbCl2O, when interfaced with Li metal, is predicted to form a mixture of LiCl, LiNbO2, and Nb. The presence of electrically conductive Nb in the interfacial reaction against Li metal could prevent passivation of the interface. Furthermore, none of the equilibrium decomposition components are likely to be good ionic conductors. Therefore, while these materials exhibit high oxidative stability, their poor reductive stability and unfavorable phase equilibria limit their application as catholytes.

The reductive stability of conductors is typically determined by the lowest reduction potential of the metals present, 2,28 while the oxidative stability is controlled by the oxidation of its anion. The latter is influenced by its hybridization with the metals. 2,30,31 In line with these expectations, we observe an increase in oxidative stability for the LiMFCl4 and LiMCl5 systems, with the LiHfFCl4 and LiHfCl5 systems exhibiting the highest oxidative stability at 4.20 V. The LiMFCl4 and LiMCl5 systems exhibit very similar oxidation limits despite an incorporation of 20% F /C0 , as the first oxidative reaction in both cases involves the oxidation of Cl /C0 to Cl2 gas. Nonetheless, it is possible that the presence of F would help with passivation. The reductive stability is also improved for M = Zr and Hf systems, with LiHfFCl4 showing a lower stability limit of 1.66 V. This improvement is likely due to the stability of the 4+ oxidation state in Zr and Hf, whereas the other cations (Ta, Nb, Sb, Sn, Ti) tend to reduce to a lower valence state. The Sn 4+ and Sb 5+ systems, in particular, demonstrate very poor

Figure 3. Computer ionic conductivities and activation energies for LiMXCl4

Room temperature (A) calculated ionic conductivity and (B) activation energy of LiMXCl4 (M = Ta, Nb, Sb, Ti, Zr, Hf, Sn, X = O, F) for stoichiometric, Lideficient, and Li-excess compositions. Values are extrapolated from AIMD simulations for 0.4 ns at five temperatures between 600 and 800 K.

reductive stability due to their reduction to Sn 2+ and Sb 3+ , respectively. Despite the increased stability window for LiHfFCl4 and LiZrFCl4 (2.54 V and 2.20 V), which is wider than for LTOC and LNOC (1.82 V and 1.16 V), the LiHfFCl4 and LiZrFCl4 systems are still not stable against Li metal. Additionally, their decomposition products upon reduction (HfF4, Hf, ZrCl2, ZrF4, Li2ZrCl6, Li2HfCl6) include metallic elements (e.g., Hf) and/or products unstable against Li metal (e.g., Li2ZrCl6 and Li2HfCl6). Thus, although these limitations would still confine them to being catholytes, their improved oxidative and reductive stability could result in better compatibility with higher voltage cathodes and lower voltage anolytes. In general, all LiMXCl4 systems may serve as catholytes due to their oxidative stability exceeding 4V. However, their poor reductive stability necessitates a separate anode-side solid electrolyte (such as Li3YCl6 used by Tanaka et al.) to bridge the lithium chemical potential down to the anode for functioning in allsolid-state batteries.

## Li + diffusivity and conductivity

To evaluate the Li transport in the LiMXCl4 family, we conducted AIMD simulations on oxy- and fluoro-chloride systems at 600, 650, 700, 750, and 800 K. Pure chloride systems (LiMCl5) were excluded due to their high decomposition energies (Figure 2A). All AIMD simulations were run for at least 0.4 ns at each temperature. To account for the effect of Li off-stoichiometry, which has often shown to be beneficial to Li conduction in inorganic conductors, 32,33 we also considered Li-excess and Li-deficient compositions for the LiMXCl4 systems. This was achieved by adding one lithium ion to the lowest energy position or removing one lithium ion from the highest energy position in a 60-anion supercell while applying a background charge for charge compensation (see methods for details). Thus, a total of 42 ns AIMD simulations were conducted for this work. The AIMD simulations were initialized from the structure reported by Tanaka et al., which does not account for the possible lowering of energy via off-centering of the M-cations. We anticipate this to have little effect on the results, as the AIMD simulations themselves are not symmetry constrained. This is confirmed by the bimodal distribution of Nb-O bond distance observed in AIMD simulations, which indicates a spontaneous off-centering of Nb (Note S4 and Figure S1). Notably, among all investigated systems, only LiNbOCl4 exhibits off-centering of the M-cation in AIMD simulations, which is consistent with our observations in the DFT relaxations discussed in the section ''crystal structure of oxychlorides with 1-dimensional van der Waals bonds.''

Figure 3 shows the extrapolated room temperature lithium-ion conductivities (Figure 3A) and activation energies (Figure 3B) for the seven oxy- and fluoro-chloride systems. Because extrapolated ionic conductivity values are sensitive to diffusivities obtained during simulation, 34 we provide the self-diffusivity coefficients, Arrhenius plots, and mean squared displacements (MSD) curves for each system in Table S8 and Figures S2 -S9. Our extrapolated results display good agreement with experimental data for the known conductors. The extrapolated room temperature conductivity of LNOC in our calculations is 15.7 [4.7, 51.9] mS/cm, closely aligning with the experimental value reported by Tanaka et al. of 10.7 mS/cm. Additionally, our computed activation energy of 0.23 ± 0.03 eV is very close to the experimental value of 0.24 eV. For LTOC, our extrapolated results do not align with experimental data as well as they do for LNOC. We computed an activation energy of 0.18 ± 0.03 eV compared with the experimentally reported value of 0.23 eV, and an extrapolated room temperature ionic conductivity of 62 [22.1, 173.6] mS/cm compared with the experimentally reported value of 12.4 mS/cm. However, our results show the same qualitative trend as the experimental results, with LTOC achieving higher ionic conductivity than LNOC. Additionally, all Arrhenius curves appear well-resolved with little error and are linear across the temperature range simulated (600-800 K). Some possible explanations for the discrepancy between our theoretical results and reported experimental results include the assumption of the Nernst-Einstein relation, which ignores Li-Li correlations in the computations, 35 large error bars due to limited simulation timescales, and possible non-Arrhenius behavior at lower temperatures. 15 Furthermore, the limited degree of crystallinity achieved experimentally may lead to lower conductivity than predicted by

AIMD simulations, as the amorphous phase exhibits lower conductivity than the crystalline phase in this material system. 16

All simulated LiMXCl4 structures display conductivity greater than 1 mS/cm at room temperature. Additionally, all systems, except stoichiometric LiSbOCl4, show room temperature conductivity above 10 mS/cm, the highest among any known halide conductors. The LiMXCl4 family also displays activation energies (0.13-0.24 eV) that are substantially lower than the best activation energies achieved for close-packed halides ( /C24 0.3 eV) 36,37 and similar to the activation energy observed in the non-closepacked LaCl3-type conductors (0.197 eV). 13,38 The range of conductivities computed is quite large, from 9 mS/cm for stoichiometric LiSbOCl4 to 137.5 mS/cm for Li-stuffed LiHfFCl4. Some of the large discrepancies may be attributed to simulation error due to the limited time scales available via AIMD. However, as not all the error bars can be explained as such, it is possible that the ionic conductivity in the LiMXCl4 family can be significantly improved beyond what has been initially reported by Tanaka et al., whether by introducing off-stoichiometry and/or tuning the cation and anion chemistry.

Comparing the extrapolated room temperature conductivity values for stoichiometric, Li-excess, and Li-deficient materials (Figure 3A), it is apparent that off-stoichiometry is not necessary for good conductivity in this structural framework. As all stoichiometric structures display room temperature conductivity greater than 9 mS/cm, it is clear that the stoichiometric phase already exhibits a good balance between occupied and unoccupied Li sites, 32 and therefore Li stuffing or the creation of vacancies is not necessary to ''activate'' the diffusion mechanism in this material. Hence, a major advantage of the LiMXCl4 family is that we do not face the doping challenge associated with creating Liexcess or Li-deficient systems.

Based on the above analysis, we aim to rationalize two key points. First, the wide range conductivity values predicted in the LiMXCl4 family (9 mS/cm to 137.5 mS/cm) prompts an investigation into the factors causing these variations within systems that share the same structural framework. Second, despite having activation energies comparable to non-close-packed LaCl3 systems (0.13-0.24 eV vs. 0.197 eV), the oxy- and fluoro-chlorides in the LiMXCl4 framework exhibit significantly higher room temperature ionic conductivities (9-137.5 mS/cm vs. 3.02 mS/cm). To explore these observations, we conduct an analysis using the Meyer-Neldel framework, which relates the activation energy and conductivity prefactor in conductors. 39 The Meyer-Neldel rule has been observed in many common ionic conductors, including oxides and argyrodites. 39-42

In Figure 4A, we show a Meyer-Neldel-Conductivity (MNC) plot for the oxy- and fluoro-chlorides, illustrating the relationship between the conductivity prefactor s 0 and the activation energy Ea. Except for LiSbOCl4 (LSOC, cyan), we observe that ln s 0 and Ea exhibit a linear correlation within the LiMXCl4 family, indicating that these conductors obey the Meyer-Neldel rule. 17 The linear fit across the LiMXCl4 systems, disregarding LSOC, is depicted by the black dashed line in Figure 4A and has an R 2 score of 0.95. The inverse of the slope of the MNC linear fit is also known as the Meyer-Neldel energy D 0, and the relative magnitude between D 0 and the thermal energy kBT dictates the relationship between a system's conductivity and its activation energy. If D 0 &gt; kBT,

then the system's conductivity can be improved by lowering its activation energy. If D 0 z kBT, then the system's conductivity is independent of its activation energy, and if D 0 &lt; kBT, then the system's conductivity will be decreased by lowering its activation energy. From Figure 4A, we compute D 0 to be 60 meV, which is greater than kBT (26 meV). This suggests that lowering the activation energy could significantly improve the ionic conductivity in this structure. The broad range of conductivity values observed is likely a direct consequence of the varying activation energies (0.13-0.24 eV). In Figure 4B, we demonstrate the direct correlation between activation energy and conductivity, showing a nearly linear relationship between log( s RT) and Ea.

Todetermine how the LiMXCl4 systems compare against other notable Li-ion conductors, we plot their MNC curve alongside the MNC curves of argyrodites Li6PS5Cl(1-x)Brx, 43 garnets Li6MLa2Ta2O, 44 close-packed halides Li 3Y(1-x)InxCl6, 45 and the family of non-close-packed LaCl3-derived conductors LixTayLazCl3, y/z = ½ 38 in Figure 4C. The background includes dashed gray lines representing reference MNC lines for hypothetical materials obeying the Arrhenius relation at 300 K for selected ionic conductivities (0.0001 mS/cm-1000 mS/cm). Detailed computational methods are provided in the methods section. All the systems in Figure 4C show good Meyer-Neldel fits, with their exact values and chemistries detailed in Tables S9 and S10. We observe that the non-close-packed halide conductors (our studied LiMXCl4 system and the LaCl3 system) exhibit substantially lower activation energies than the close-packed halide, argyrodite, and oxide systems. This observation supports previous claims that a non-close-packed anion framework is necessary for achieving activation energies below 0.3 eV. 13

Figure 4C also helps explain why the two non-close-packed chloride systems, the LiMXCl4 system and the LaCl3 system, have significantly different ionic conductivities (9-137.5 mS/cm vs. 3.02 mS/cm). The MNC line for the LiMXCl4 systems intersects the 10 mS/cm and 100 mS/cm lines, suggesting that, depending on the specific activation energy, the room temperature conductivity will range between 10 and 100 mS/cm. The LaCl3 system, on the other hand, has a smaller conductivity prefactor, and therefore only crosses the 1 mS/cm line. In addition, the MNC plot for the LaCl3 system has a steeper slope, resulting in a smaller Meyer-Neldel energy compared with the LiMXCl4 systems (29.4 meV vs. 60 meV). Since this Meyer-Neldel energy is close to the thermal energy, the conductivity of the LaCl3 system is practically independent of its activation energy. This suggests a limit to the conductivity of LaCl3 systems, as improving their activation energy will not significantly improve their ionic conductivity, limiting the LaCl3 systems to a conductivity near 1 mS/cm. Similar to the LiMXCl4 system, the ionic conductivity for the close-packed LYC system also improves as the activation energy decreases. However, the range of activation energies (&gt;0.33 eV) observed will limit their conductivity to &lt;10 mS/cm.

The combined MNC plots in Figure 4C indicate that among the presented ionic conductors, compounds in the LiMXCl4 family show possibly the greatest potential due to their combination of low activation energy, high conductivity prefactor, and high Meyer-Neldel energy, which enables their conductivities to be &gt;10 mS/cm. Finding ways to further lower the activation

Figure 4. Meyer-Neldel relationship in oxychlorides

(A) Meyer-Neldel conductivity (MNC) plot for systems in the LiMXCl4 family, plotting the conductivity prefactor against the activation energy. A linear fit on all 2

systems except LSOC is shown by the black dashed line, with an R score of 0.95.

(B) Room temperature conductivity vs. activation energy for all LiMXCl4 systems. For (A) and (B), the colors represent different chemistries: purple = LTOC, blue = LNOC, cyan = LSOC, green = LTFC, yellow = LZFC, orange = LSFC, red = LHFC, and shapes represent different stoichiometries as indicated in the legend. (C) MNC plots for various SSEs as taken from the literature. 38,43-45 The dashed lines correspond to guidelines for different ionic conductivities, as labeled.

energy in these systems would allow for the conductivity to reach even higher values. Therefore, identifying factors that decrease the activation energy in these conductors would certainly be beneficial, albeit not necessary, given their preexisting high conductivity.

Physically, the Meyer-Neldel energy ( D 0) or Meyer-Neldel temperature (TMN or D 0/kB) describes the enthalpy-entropy correlation in the ion activation process. 18,19 Specifically, TMN refers to the temperature at which D Hactivation = TMN D Sactivation, therefore the free energy of activation ( D Gactivation) is non-positive to enable liquid-like, barrier-free motion of the ions. As the activation enthalpy of all superionic conductors compared in Figure 4C are similarly low (&lt;0.3 eV), we hypothesize that the high TMN or D 0 arise from a low D Sactivation , indicating that in the crystalline LiMXCl4 system, the entropy of ground states is higher, or the entropy of activated states is lower. Given that the positions of lithium ions in the ground states are highly delocalized within the van der Waals gaps between the one-dimensional chains, we hypothesize that the low D Sactivation may originate from the high degeneracy of lithium positions in the ground state.

## Origin of superionic conductivity in oxyhalides system

Due to the framework cations being connected in a chain via a single vertex (O 2 /C0 in case of LTOC/LNOC) and the soft van der Waals bonding between the chains, the M-octahedra in LiMXCl4 are capable of tilting their orientation with respect to the chain axis. This tilting may occur independently of lithiumion hops (as librational motion) or be dependent on lithium-ion hops (i.e., soft cradle effect). 46 In this section, we quantify the degree of correlation between Li-ion hops and octahedral tilting and evaluate how octahedral tilting influences the Li-ion conductivities in the LiMXCl4 systems.

Usingapreviouslydevelopedquaternionalgorithmfordetecting the rotational motions of polyhedra from MD trajectories, we extracted the frequencies of rotational events that exceed various minimum angle cutoffs. 46,47 A similar algorithm was applied to detect the occurrences of individual Li-ion hops with a minimum distance cutoff of 3 A ˚ in MD trajectories (see methods for details). Figure 5A plots the frequency at which rotation events exceeding a given angle cutoff (15 /C14 -35 /C14 ) occur for stoichiometric LiMXCl4 at 700 K (data for other temperatures are provided in

Figure 5. Relating the rotational motion of octahedra to lithium-ion hops

The frequency of Li-ion hop and octahedral rotational motion at 700 K is shown in (A) for stoichiometric LiMXCl4 compounds and for NASICON-type LATP. The dashed horizontal line indicates the frequency of the lithium-ion hops. The activation energy of an Li-hop, and 15 /C14 , 20 /C14 , and 25 /C14 rotation events are plotted for stoichiometric LiMXCl4 and for NASICON-type LATP (B). An arbitrarily high activation energy is plotted for the 25 /C14 rotational motion of LATP value, as these events were too rare to compute an activation energy. The conditional probability analysis of 20-degree rotations for stoichiometric LiTaOCl4 at 700 K is shown in (C). The orange and blue lines indicate the probability of rotation with the condition that a nearest neighboring Li-ion underwent a hop (orange) or with the condition that the nearest neighboring Li-ion did not undergo a hop within ± 2 ps time window. The black line indicates the probability of a rotation event of a lower-bound angle of 20 /C14 occurring regardless of lithiumion hops. The dashed gray lines indicate the probability of a single octahedral rotation event of a lower-bound angle of 20 /C14 occurring within ± dt assuming that rotation events follow a Poisson process. D P values at dt = 1 ps for stoichiometric LiMXCl4 and LATP are plotted for 700 K simulations (D).

By performing an Arrhenius fit on the event frequencies for a given angle cutoff against inverse temperature, we calculated the activation energy of lithium hop events and M-octahedral rotation events. Figure 5B compares the activa-

Figures S10 -S14). The horizontal dashed lines indicate the event frequency of lithium-ion hops. In all LiMXCl4 systems, no largeangle rotational motion was detected in our AIMD simulations. Instead, we find a substantial frequency of 20 /C14 -30 /C14 small-angle tilting events comparable to the frequency of lithium hops at all simulated temperatures. For example, the frequency of rotation events exceeding 20 /C14 in stoichiometric LTOC at 700 K is 0.483 events/ps/atom, which is comparable to the frequency of lithium-ion hops, 0.496 events/ps/atom. Upon comparing against the rotational motion of Ti-octahedron in the three-dimensionally covalent bonded NASICON-type Li1.33Al0.33Ti1.67(PO4)3 (LATP) superionic conductor, we find that while the ionic conductivity of LATP is comparable to those found in LiMXCl4 systems, the frequency of 15 /C14 -20 /C14 rotational motion is at least an order of magnitude smaller. We note that for LATP, rotational motion above an angle of 25 /C14 could not be observed in our MD simulations. In general, we observe that the lithium-ion hop frequency in LiMXCl4 systems is similar for all substitutions within a factor of two, whereas the event frequencies of small-angle rotational events vary with chemistry up to an order of magnitude. The order of rotational frequencies is approximately LSFC &gt; LTFC z LSOC &gt; LTOC z LNOC &gt; LZFC &gt; LHFC. These trends are also applicable to the analysis of trajectories at other temperatures (Figures S10 -S14).

tion energy of 15 /C14 , 20 /C14 , and 25 /C14 rotational events and lithiumion hop events extracted from the AIMD simulations for stoichiometric LiMXCl4 systems, as well as for LATP at temperatures between 600 K and 800 K (data for Li-excess and Li-deficient systems are provided in Figure S15). In general, we find that the activation energy of lithium-ion hop events in LiMXCl4 systems is similar to that of 15 /C14 rotation events. While the activation energy of Li-ion hops is generally consistent across different chemistries, the activation energy for 20 /C14 and 25 /C14 rotation events varies significantly by chemistry. The activation energies of rotational events are the lowest for LHFC and LTFC, whereas LSFC, LZFC, and LNOC exhibit the highest activation energy for 20 /C14 -25 /C14 events. When comparing the LiMXCl4 systems with covalently bonded LATP, we find that LATP has noticeably higher activation energies for rotational motion with angles of 15 /C14 -20 /C14 . The activation energy of rotational motions for angles above 25 /C14 could not be calculated for LATP because we could not detect sufficient rotational events above 25 /C14 . This result confirms that, in general, the binding of polyhedra within LiMXCl4 structures is much less rigid compared with three-dimensionally covalent frameworks.

A similar frequency of 20 /C14 -30 /C14 small-angle tilting events and lithium-ion hop events does not necessarily guarantee that the

two motions are spatially and temporally correlated. To understand the degree of correlation between small-angle rotational motion and lithium-ion hops, we calculated the probability of M-octahedra rotational events occurring with the condition that the nearest neighboring Li undergoes a hop within ± 2 ps (P(rotation | hop)) and the probability of M-octahedra rotational events occurring with the condition that the nearest neighboring Li does not undergo a hop within ± 2 ps (P(rotation | no-hop)). As an example, Figure 5C plots these computed conditional probabilities as a function of the time between the hop and rotation event (dt) in the 700 K MD simulation of stoichiometric LTOC. The orange and blue lines indicate P(rotation | hop) and P(rotation | no-hop), respectively. In stoichiometric LTOC, P(rotation | hop) is significantly higher than P(rotation | no-hop). The gap between the orange and blue lines indicates how much more likely a rotation event is to occur when accompanied by a nearest neighboring Li-ion hop within ± 2 ps. We refer to this difference between P(rotation | hop) and P(rotation | no-hop) as D P throughout this work. A positive D P indicates that lithium-ion hops are more likely to occur when accompanied by a small-angle tilting event of the nearest neighboring M-octahedra, a correlative motion coined the soft cradle effect. 46 Therefore, since the LTOC system has a significant D P (Figure 5C), it has a prominent soft cradle effect. We note that the symmetry of P(rot | hop) with respect to dt = 0 in Figure 5C arises naturally from our event detection results, indicating that, statistically, there is no tendency for a rotation event to precede nor follow a hop event.

Wecomputedthe D Pvalues (at dt = ± 1 ps) for all stoichiometric LiMXCl4 systems as well as for covalently bonded LATP (Figure5D).Figure5Dplotsthe D Pvaluesof15 /C14 , 20 /C14 , 25 /C14 , and 30 /C14 rotational events computed from AIMD simulations at 700 K. In all LiMXCl4 systems, D P values are positive, indicating that smallangle rotational motions are more likely to occur when accompanied by nearby Li-ion hop. However, the degree of this correlation varies significantly by system. The D P values in LTOC and LTFC are significantly larger than in the other LiMXCl4 systems. Hence, while the soft cradle effect is present in all LiMXCl4 systems, its strength and significance differ by system. Nevertheless, when comparing LiMXCl4 systems against covalently bonded LATP, wefind that D Pvalues for LATP are near zero at all simulated temperatures (complete data are provided in Figures S16 -S20), indicating little correlation between the rotational motion of Ti-octahedra and lithium-ion hops. This analysis suggests that the weaklyboundvanderWaalsframeworkinLiMXCl4systemsallows the M-octahedra to frequently tilt together with nearby lithium hops, a feature not observed in covalently bonded systems like LATP. Furthermore, we confirm that lithium hops with spatially and temporally correlated rotational events tend to migrate in the out-of-chain ( b and c ) directions, whereas lithium hops without such correlations tend to have a larger hop component in the inchain ( a ) direction (Note S5, Figures S21 -S24). This behavior arises because the one-dimensional connectivity of the chains in the LiMXCl4 structure restricts most rotational motion to the outof-chain directions, and lithium hops influenced by the soft cradle effect are more frequent in these directions.

However, if the correlated rotational motion of the polyhedra were solely responsible for the high conductivity in LiMXCl4 sys-

tems, we would expect to observe significant differences in room temperature conductivities and activation energies between systems with markedly different D P values (e.g., LTOC and LHFC). This is not the case, as LHFC, with small D P values, and LTOC, with large D P values, have very comparable room temperature conductivities and activation energies. This suggests that a decrease in correlated rotational motion ( D P) should be offset by a positive factor beneficial to Li diffusion.

In Figure 6A, we plot how D P (the degree of correlation between 20 /C14 tilting motion and lithium-ion hops) is affected by free volume and the M-octahedra volume for all stoichiometric LiMXCl4 systems at 650 K. The average volume of M-octahedra was computed by sampling the M-octahedral volume every 1 ps from the AIMD snapshots at each temperature. We compute the free volume that a lithium-ion can access by subtracting the average volume of M-octahedra from the supercell volume. We find that the degree of correlation between octahedral tilting and lithium-ion hop is larger when the free volume and the volume of M-octahedra are smaller.

To rationalize this observation, we propose that both the free volume for lithium diffusion and the strength of interaction between lithium-ion and M-cations govern the degree of correlated rotational motion in the LiMXCl4 framework (Figures 6B and 6C). If there is sufficient free volume for lithium to diffuse or if the interaction between M-cations and lithium ions is weak, lithium can diffuse through the structure with minimal cation repulsion within the diffusion channel, reducing the need for 20 /C14 -30 /C14 tilting of M-octahedra to facilitate lithium-ion hops. However, as the free volume for lithium decreases and the interaction between the M-cations and lithium ions strengthens, more octahedral tilting is needed to facilitate lithium-ion hopping. Larger octahedra elongate the distance between the Li ions and M-metal cations, thereby lowering the interaction between them. Consequently, a larger octahedral volume correlates with less correlated octahedral tilting. A breakdown of the Li-ion activation energies in LiMXCl4 systems into its a , b , and c directions (Note S6 and Table S11) supports this rationalization. Systems that display higher D P values (e.g., LTOC and LTFC) typically exhibit lower activation energies along its out-of-chain ( b, c ) directions. However, those values are often offset by a higher activation energy in the in-chain ( a ) direction. Systems with lower D P values (e.g., LNOC and LHFC) display the opposite effect, with lower activation energies along the in-chain direction offset by higher activation energies in the out-of-chain directions.

Thus, the wide channels and weak interaction from M-cations in LiMXCl4 structures provide fast lithium transport. However, even in LiMXCl4 systems where the channel size may be relatively smaller and the interaction from M-cations is relatively stronger, their flexible van der Waals frameworks can still facilitate fast lithium transport by enabling the soft cradle effect.

## DISCUSSION

The recently discovered oxychloride structure shows immense potential as a solid-state catholyte due to its high oxidative stability, ionic conductivity, and soft mechanical response compared with pure oxides. Additionally, oxychlorides have the advantage that their high conductivities do not deteriorate

Figure 6. Rationalization of the degree of correlated rotational motion in LiMXCl4 systems (A) plots the trend between D P (the degree of correlation between 20 /C14 tilting motion and lithium-ion hop) and free volume (defined by the supercell volume subtracted by M-octahedra volume, blue) as well as volume of M-octahedra for all stoichiometric LiMXCl4 systems at 650 K (brown). (B) Schematic showing how a smaller M-octahedra volume results in stronger interaction to a nearby lithium resulting in a stronger degree of correlation between its 20 /C14 rotational motion and a nearby lithium-ion hop. /C14

(C) Schematic where a smaller free volume in the crystal structure provides less space for lithium diffusion, resulting in a stronger correlation between its 20 rotational motion and a nearby lithium-ion hop.

upon heat treatment. 14,16 This differs from close-packed halides, where defects such as stacking faults or cation disorder are typically required for superionic conductivity, causing close-packed halides to lose their superionic conductivity at temperatures as low as 60 /C14 C. 36,48 Our results show that the high ionic conductivity and oxidative stability are not limited to the reported LiNbOCl4 or LiTaOCl4 but can also be achieved in other cation- and anionsubstituted systems. This suggests potential for further improvements in ionic conductivity and the development of more costeffective alternatives to Nb or Ta systems, such as those based on Ti, Sn, and Zr.

Our first-principles calculations also suggest that the oxychloride structure may be realized with a fluoro-chloride chemistry. In particular, the concurrent substitution of high-valent cations Ta 5+ and Nb 5+ with lower valence cations Zr 4+ and Hf 4+ , and O 2 /C0 with F /C0 , may improve the reductive stability while maintaining reasonable thermodynamic stability. However, our preliminary attempts to synthesize LiHfFCl4 and LiZrFCl4 have not been successful, instead resulting in the layered Li2(Hf/Zr)Cl6 structure 49,50 (Note S7 and Figure S25). This discrepancy highlights the challenge of obtaining the desired Li(Ta/Nb)OCl4 structure due to a competing phase in the Li-(Hf/Zr)-Cl-F chemical space. Efforts to stabilize the structure by adjusting the F and Cl content in LiHfFCl ₄ did not yield promising results (Note S8, Table S12, and Figure S26). We find that pure chlorides are highly unstable in this framework, indicating that a mixed-anion framework with a distinct anion (O or F) connecting the octahedra may be key to stabilizing the structure. Although some of the LiMXCl4 compounds are computed to be metastable, none are thermodynamically stable at 0 K, likely explaining why ball milling has been the primary method of synthesis for these materials.

Another advantage of the LiMXCl4 compounds is that no additional Li off-stoichiometry substitutions are required to achieve high ionic conductivity, unlike in garnets or NASICON-type conductors. In garnets, introducing excess lithium beyond a lithium

content of 3 is necessary to achieve room temperature superionic conductivity. 51 Similarly, NASICON-type LiTi2(PO4)3 requires excess lithium content above 1.3 to achieve high conductivity. 52,53 In contrast, the LiMXCl4 family exhibits superionic conductivity across stoichiometric, lithium-deficient, and lithium-excess compositions, without a systematic trend between lithium off-stoichiometry and ionic conductivity. This indicates that LiMXCl4 materials do not require the strong lithiumlithium interactions induced by Li stuffing to achieve a flat energy landscape.

Instead, a number of fundamental factors contribute to generating higher ionic conductivity in LiMXCl4 compared with any previously reported close-packed chloride conductors, which at best achieve ionic conductivities of approximately 3 mS/cm at room temperature. First, the LiMXCl4 structure is built from a non-close-packed framework with corner-sharing connectivity between the M-octahedra. It was previously suggested that corner-sharing oxide frameworks facilitate fast lithium-ion diffusion by providing highly distorted Li sites. 33 The distortion of Li sites away from perfectly symmetric tetrahedral or octahedral configurations lowers the kinetically resolved activation energies needed to escape each coordination environment. This is a major cause for the lower activation energy and improved room temperature conductivity in the LiMXCl4 structure compared with close-packed chlorides, as supported by recent studies. 13 Another advantage of corner-sharing frameworks is the low spatial density of non-Li cations, which increases the likelihood of lithium ions migrating without approaching the positive charges of the non-Li cations. LiMXCl4 compounds benefit from this feature, having a non-Li cation-to-anion ratio of 1:5, which is lower than all oxide-based superionic conductors (NASICON: 5:12, garnet: 5:12, LiTa2PO8: 3:8). We believe this factor may also be advantageous for close-packed chlorides (LixMCl6: 1:6) and may be the reason why among the diverse M:Cl ratios possible in close-packed halides, only the smallest M:Cl ratio of 1:6 results in superionic conductivity (e.g., Li3MCl6 [M = Y, In, Er], Li2ZrCl6).

Another characteristic feature that benefits lithium-ion diffusion in the LiMXCl4 system is its van der Waals-bonded framework. The M-octahedra are connected to each other by a single O 2 /C0 /F /C0 /Cl /C0 vertex, forming one-dimensional M-octahedral chains. These chains interact with one another only via van der Waals interactions, allowing for a flexible framework response toward migrating lithium ions, helping to flatten the lithium-ion energy landscape. This concept is supported by our comparison of the degree of correlation between 20 /C14 octahedral rotations and lithium-ion hops in three-dimensional covalently bonded LATP and in LiMXCl4. While LATP shows no correlated rotational motion for rotational events above 20 /C14 , LiMXCl4 systems exhibit positive correlated rotational motion (positive D Pvalues) for rotations between 20 /C14 and 30 /C14 . This indicates that the van der Waals interactions in LiMXCl4 enable a flexible framework that accommodates lithium-ion migration more effectively than the rigid covalent bonding in LATP.

The degree of correlation between hop and rotation events ( D P) varies across different LiMXCl4 chemistries and is directly related to the strength of interactions between Li ions and the nearby framework polyhedra (M-oct). A larger distance between

the Li ions and non-Li cations or a larger free volume within the structure decreases these interactions, allowing Li ions to traverse relatively uncorrelated with polyhedral rotations. These systems achieve high ionic conductivity due to their wide and low-energy diffusion pathways. Similar observations have been made in amorphous Li3PS4 systems where lower density amorphous models tend to show smaller D P. 46 This is relevant to the aforementioned features of weak interaction between Li ions and M-metals suggested for corner-sharing frameworks. 33 Therefore, the high ionic conductivity in LiMXCl4 systems can be attributed to a favorable combination of several factors: a flat Li-ion energy landscape, low Li-ion density, a flexible and rotatable polyhedral framework, the soft cradle effect, and weak repulsion between Li ions and other cations.

In the original article by Tanaka et al., the authors suggested a liquid-like diffusion behavior of lithium ions. 14 This suggestion can be rationalized by the van der Waals framework of LiMXCl4. Due to the weak van der Waals interactions in this framework, the M-octahedra frequently undergo orientational changes of substantial amplitude (20 /C14 -30 /C14 ), resulting in a dynamic change of the lithium-ion site environment. This behavior contrasts sharply with other typical crystalline superionic conductors, such as garnet or NASICONs, where the framework remains mostly static leading to a non-changing diffusion network.

In this study, we performed a total of 42 ns of ab initio molecular dynamics simulations across various chemistries, lithium contents, and temperatures. It has been reported that correlation factors require significantly longer simulations to achieve convergence compared with self-diffusion coefficients. 35 Consequently, we anticipate that the frequency of rotational events and the conditional probabilities relating different types of events may have larger uncertainties than the Li conductivity values computed assuming Nernst-Einstein relation. To address this, longer simulations in larger supercells that sample more rare events are desirable. We suggest that machine learning-based interatomic potentials 54-58 may provide an avenue toward more accurate quantification of the correlations between Lihops and octahedral tilting events.

## Conclusion

In this work, we explore the effects of diverse chemical substitutions and Li off-stoichiometry in LiMXCl4 systems. All the LiMXCl4 chemistries we evaluated consistently exhibit superionic conductivity, and many of them are predicted to surpass the conductivity of previously explored materials like LiTaOCl4 and LiNbOCl4. The high ionic conductivities owing to their low activation energy and high conductivity prefactor, good deformability, and high voltage stability make these systems highly promising for use as catholytes in all-solid-state batteries. Our probabilistic analysis of rotational dynamics on the picosecond timescale contributes direct, quantitative evidence of the soft tilting motion of MO2Cl4 octahedral groups that correlates with lithium-ion hops (i.e., soft cradle effect) in LiMXCl 4, but this effect noticeably varies across different chemistries. We posit that the variation in correlated rotational motion across systems can be attributed to differences in free volume and octahedral volume. The flexibility of the van der Waals framework enables facile Li diffusion, even when there are increased Li-cation interactions

or smaller free volumes, by flattening the Li energy landscape through 20 /C14 -30 /C14 correlated octahedral rotations. Thus, the LiMXCl4 framework is adaptable to changes in free volume and polyhedral size without compromising ionic conductivity. This adaptability is evident in the Meyer-Neldel analysis, which indicates that the LiMXCl4 structures offer a favorable combination of low activation energy and high conductivity prefactor, making them promising for achieving even higher conductivity.

## METHODS

## First-principles calculations

All DFT calculations were performed using the Vienna Ab initio Simulation Package (VASP) 59 using the Perdew-BurkeErnzerhof (PBE) generalized-gradient approximation (GGA) 60 and the r 2 SCAN metaGGA functional. 61 For AIMD simulations, the DFT-D3 (Grimme) van der Waals correction 62 was applied to the PBE GGA function. An energy cutoff of 680 eV for r 2 SCAN calculations and 520 eV for GGA calculations and a k-point density compatible with the Materials Project database 21 were used. A background charge was applied to maintain charge neutrality for the Li-deficient and Li-excess structures. For each system, three independent DFT relaxations were performed. Each relaxation was initiated from the cationand anion-substituted LiVOF4 entry in the Materials Project (mp-850188). The GGA relaxations were performed on a 3 3 1 3 1 supercell, whereas the r 2 SCAN relaxations were performed on the unit cell. The results of the three relaxations are presented in Tables S1 and S2. The first relaxation maintained the symmetry of the Tanaka et al. structure model (denoted as ''symmetry-on''). The two other relaxations were performed with the symmetry turned off (denoted as ''symmetry-off,'' ISYM = /C0 1). One of the symmetry-off structures had the M-cation manually shifted upward by (0.03, 0, 0) in fractional coordinates for GGA and (0.09, 0, 0) in fractional coordinates for r 2 SCAN (denoted as ''symmetry-off, shifted''), while the other symmetry-off structure did not contain a manual shift (denoted as ''symmetry-off, no shift''). The lowest energy structure resulting from the three relaxations was used in the stability analysis. For the GGA phase stability calculations, the vdW correction was not used to maintain compatibility with the Materials Project database. Structures with Li off-stoichiometry (Li-excess or Li-deficient) were created by adding or removing one Li-ion to or from the relaxed symmetry-on stoichiometric structure and performing a DFT relaxation at constant volume with a compensating background charge. A Li vacancy was created by removing a randomly selected Li atom from the stoichiometric structure. For the Li-stuffed structure, symmetrically distinct Li-ion sites were obtained by modeling the stoichiometric structure with the Buckingham potential. 63 A separate DFT calculation was performed with a stuffed Li-ion for each candidate site and with a uniform background charge. The candidate site associated with the lowest DFT energy was selected as the site for the stuffed Li-ion.

## Stability analysis

The thermodynamic stability of each LiMXCl4 compound was determined by computing its energy above the convex hull of

the relevant LiM -X-Cl phase diagram. The electrochemical stability window for each LiMXCl4 system was determined by constructing the grand potential F ½ c ; m Li /C138 convex hull and varying m Li from 0 to 6V to identify the onset of decomposition at low and high m Li , following the procedure developed by Richards et al . 28 All compounds in the Materials Project database were considered as potential competing phases. Compounds in the GNoME 64 database of stable structures were also considered as potential competing phases for the construction of the r 2 SCAN phase diagram. Li2ZrCl6, Li2HfCl6, Li2ZrF6, and Li2HfF6, which were experimentally reported 49,50 but missing from the Materials Project database, were also included. In computing the stability window, we used the energy of the convex hull for metastable LiMXCl4 systems to obtain a nonzero stability window. The energy of the lowest energy structure among the symmetry-on, symmetry-off without shift, and symmetry-off (detailed in the section ''first-principles calculations'') structures was used for the computations.

## Rotation and hop detection

For each MX2Cl4 octahedron, we recorded the rotation matrix required to reach the orientation at time t from the first snapshot using singular value decomposition, as implemented in a previous work. 46 We converted the rotation matrices to a unit quaternion and saved these quaternions throughout the entire trajectory. We then computed the quaternion distance between Q(t0) and Q(t0 + 1 ps) for t0 values spanning the entire simulation. The quaternion distance between two quaternions is computed by the equation: d(q1, q2) = min(2log(q1q2 T ), 2log(q1q2 T )), which corresponds to the magnitude of the rotation angle needed to align q1 to q2. We detected peaks in the time series of quaternion distances with heights greater than the angle cutoff value and selected peaks with prominence larger than 50% of the angle cutoff values. Each detected peak indicates a rotation event occurred at time t0, and the peak height corresponds to the angle of the rotation event. We chose the time interval of 1 ps because it is within the range of typical phonon frequencies. A similar algorithm was used to detect lithium-ion hops. We computed the distance between R(t0) (the position of lithium-ion at t0) and R(t0 + 1 ps) (the position of lithium-ion at t0 + 1 ps) for t0 values spanning the entire simulation, and detected peaks in the time series of distance values with heights greater than 3 A ˚ . Our algorithm provides complete information on the initial orientation, final orientation, rotation angle, rotation axis, time of rotation event, and octahedra index for rotational events, as well as the initial position, final position, hop distance, time of hop event, and Li index for hop events. The error bars for the event frequencies of rotations and hops were computed based on the assumption that rotation or hop events are Poisson processes with no time correlation and a fixed rate constant.

## Probability analysis of events

Based on the rotation and hop events detected in the MD trajectories, we computed the probability of rotational motion exceeding a specified angle under various conditions. To calculate P(rot | hop) (i.e., the probability of rotation assuming that the nearest neighboring lithium undergoes a hop within ± dt) for each

lithium in the supercell, we first detected all hop events that occurred in the trajectory. We then identified all rotation events of its nearest neighboring MX2Cl4 octahedron within ± 2 ps of each hop event. We labeled the moment of each lithium hop as dt = 0 and identified the first rotation of the nearest neighboring octahedron following the hop (dt = tright &gt; 0) and the last rotation prior to the hop (dt = tleft &lt; 0). For each lithium hop, we constructed a summed Heaviside step function H(dt /C0 t right) + (1 /C0 H(dt /C0 t left)) to record the time taken for a rotation to follow or precede the hop event. By collecting such information for all lithium in the supercell, we averaged the summed Heaviside step functions to obtain the time-dependent conditional probability of rotation given that a hop event occurred at dt = 0.

Asimilar method was used to compute P(rot | no-hop) (i.e., the probability of rotation assuming that the nearest neighboring lithium did undergo a hop within ± dt time frame) for each lithium in the supercell. For each lithium, we identified snapshots where the Li did not experience a hop within a ± 2 ps time frame. For each of these snapshots, we constructed a Heaviside step function H(dt-tright ) + (1-H(dt-t left)) to record the time taken for a rotation to follow or precede such a moment. By collecting this information for all snapshots where no hop occured within ± 2 ps, we computed the time-dependent conditional probability of rotation assuming no hop event occurred at dt = 0.

## Ab initio molecular dynamics

AIMD simulations of LiMXCl4 systems were conducted with VASP at temperatures of 600, 650, 700, 750, and 800 K. Simulations were performed on structure models that maintained the symmetry of Tanaka's structure model (symmetry-on). The van der Waals correction was not used for the AIMD simulation of NASICON-type LATP. All MD calculations were carried out in the NVT ensemble using a No ´ se-Hoover thermostat, with volumes fixed at the values of the 0 K relaxed structures. For each temperature and system, the temperature was linearly ramped from 100 K to the target temperature by scaling the velocities at intervals of 0.2 ps for 2 ps. Following this, an equilibration period of 5 ps was performed at the target temperature, followed by a long simulation at the desired temperature for at least 400 ps. The timestep of 2 fs was used. Li-ion self-diffusion coefficients were determined by calculating the MSD of the AIMD annealing trajectories, where the squared displacements were averaged over time intervals of duration D t. Only the portion of the MSD curve with D t &gt; 1 ps and D t &lt; 10% of the total simulation time was considered in the analysis. Error bars for the diffusivities were computed using the empirical error estimation scheme proposed by He et al. 65 Activation energies and room temperature diffusivities were extrapolated by fitting the diffusivities to an Arrhenius relation. Ionic conductivities were calculated from Li-ion self-diffusivities assuming the Nernst-Einstein relation.

## Meyer-Neldel relationship

The Meyer-Neldel rule (MNR) specifies a linear relationship between ln s 0 and Ea in the form ln s 0 = a Ea + b , and D 0 = 1 = a is the Meyer-Neldel energy. 17 The conductivity prefactor s 0 is determinedfromtheArrheniusrelationusedtofitthe simulationdiffusivities, as described in the section '' ab initio molecular dynamics.''

The coefficients a and b are obtained by performing linear regression of ln s 0 vs. Ea data for all LiMXCl4 systems except LiSbOCl4. The guidelines in Figure 4C are derived by taking the logarithm of the Arrhenius conductivity relation s T = s 0 exp /C16 /C0 Ea kBT /C17 and rearrangingit, which leads to ln s 0 = ln s T + Ea kBT . This indicates a linear relationship between Ea and ln s 0 with a slope of 1 kBT and an intercept of ln( s T). Thus, by inputting the desired temperature (300 K in our case) and conductivity (10 /C0 3 to 10 3 mS/cm), we obtain the guidelines shown in Figure 4C.

## RESOURCE AVAILABILITY

## Lead contact

Further information and requests for resources and reagents should be directed to and will be fulfilled by the lead contact, Gerbrand Ceder (gceder@berkeley.edu).

## Materials availability

No new materials were synthesized in this work.

## Data and code availability

All data associated with this study including the molecular dynamics trajectories are available from the lead contact upon request. The code associated with the rotation event detection algorithms are available from https://github. com/KyuJungJun/CorrelationAnalyzer.

## ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

This work was supported by Umicore, contract no. 34586 to the Regents of the University of California, Berkeley and the Assistant Secretary for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, Vehicle Technologies Office, of the US Department of Energy under contract no. DE-AC02-05CH11231. This research used computational resources of the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) clusters under the ahlssic allocation. K.J. acknowledges support from the Kwanjeong Educational Foundation Scholarship. G.W. acknowledges support by the US Department of Energy, Office of Science, Office of Advanced Scientific Computing Research, Department of Energy Computational Science Graduate Fellowship, under award no. DESC0023112. This report was prepared as an account of work sponsored by an agency of the US government. Neither the US government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product, or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the US government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of authors expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the US government or any agency thereof.

## AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS

K.J., G.W., and G.C. conceived and designed the analysis. K.J. and G.W. performed the computations and analysis. X.Y. and Y.C. conducted the experiments. G.C. supervised the project. The manuscript was drafted by K.J. and G.W. and revised by X.Y., Y.C., and G.C.

## DECLARATION OF INTERESTS

One of the author's immediate family members has an advisory relationship with the journal.

## DECLARATION OF GENERATIVE AI AND AI-ASSISTED TECHNOLOGIES

During the preparation of this work, the authors used ChatGPT to edit the final draft of the manuscript. After using this tool, the authors reviewed and edited the content as needed and they take full responsibility for the content of the publication.

## SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION

Supplemental information can be found online at https://doi.org/10.1016/j. matt.2025.102001.

Received: September 9, 2024

Revised: December 21, 2024

Accepted: January 22, 2025

Published: February 13, 2025

## REFERENCES

1. Zhao, Q., Stalin, S., Zhao, C.-Z., and Archer, L.A. (2020). Designing solidstate electrolytes for safe, energy-dense batteries. Nat. Rev. Mater. 5 , 229-252. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41578-019-0165-5.
2. Xiao, Y., Wang, Y., Bo, S.-H., Kim, J.C., Miara, L.J., and Ceder, G. (2019). Understanding interface stability in solid-state batteries. Nat. Rev. Mater. 5 , 105-126. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41578-019-0157-5.
3. Zhou, L., Zuo, T.-T., Kwok, C.Y., Kim, S.Y., Assoud, A., Zhang, Q., Janek, J., and Nazar, L.F. (2022). High areal capacity, long cycle life 4 V ceramic all-solid-state Li-ion batteries enabled by chloride solid electrolytes. Nat. Energy 7 , 83-93. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-021-00952-0.
4. Hayashi, N., Watanabe, K., and Shimanoe, K. (2024). Co-sintering a cathode material and garnet electrolyte to develop a bulk-type solid-state Li metal battery with wide electrochemical windows. J. Mater. Chem. A 12 , 5269-5281. https://doi.org/10.1039/D3TA06747E.
5. Demuth, T., Fuchs, T., Walther, F., Pokle, A., Ahmed, S., Malaki, M., Beyer, A., Janek, J., and Volz, K. (2023). Influence of the sintering temperature on LLZO-NCMcathode composites for solid-state batteries studied by transmission electron microscopy. Matter 6 , 2324-2339. https://doi.org/10. 1016/j.matt.2023.04.022.
6. Kwak, H., Wang, S., Park, J., Liu, Y., Kim, K.T., Choi, Y., Mo, Y., and Jung, Y.S. (2022). Emerging Halide Superionic Conductors for All-Solid-State Batteries: Design, Synthesis, and Practical Applications. ACS Energy Lett. 7 , 1776-1805. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.2c00438.
7. Wang, C., Liang, J., Kim, J.T., and Sun, X. (2022). Prospects of halidebased all-solid-state batteries: From material design to practical application. Sci. Adv 8 , eadc9516. https://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.adc9516.
8. Liang, J., Li, X., Adair, K.R., and Sun, X. (2021). Metal Halide Superionic Conductors for All-Solid-State Batteries. Acc. Chem. Res. 54 , 10231033. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.accounts.0c00762.
9. Asano, T., Sakai, A., Ouchi, S., Sakaida, M., Miyazaki, A., and Hasegawa, S. (2018). Solid Halide Electrolytes with High Lithium-Ion Conductivity for Application in 4 V Class Bulk-Type All-Solid-State Batteries. Adv. Mater 30 , e1803075. https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201803075.
10. Kamaya, N., Homma, K., Yamakawa, Y., Hirayama, M., Kanno, R., Yonemura, M., Kamiyama, T., Kato, Y., Hama, S., Kawamoto, K., and Mitsui, A. (2011). A lithium superionic conductor. Nat. Mater 10 , 682-686. https:// doi.org/10.1038/nmat3066.
11. Zhou, L., Assoud, A., Zhang, Q., Wu, X., and Nazar, L.F. (2019). New Family of Argyrodite Thioantimonate Lithium Superionic Conductors. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 141 , 19002-19013. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b08357.
12. Li, Y., Song, S., Kim, H., Nomoto, K., Kim, H., Sun, X., Hori, S., Suzuki, K., Matsui, N., Hirayama, M., et al. (2023). A lithium superionic conductor for millimeter-thick battery electrode. Science 381 , 50-53. https://doi.org/10. 1126/science.add7138.
13. Luo, J.-D., Zhang, Y., Cheng, X., Li, F., Tan, H.-Y., Zhou, M.-Y., Wang, Z.W., Hao, X.-D., Yin, Y.-C., Jiang, B., and Yao, H.B. (2024). Halide Superionic Conductors with Non-Close-Packed Anion Frameworks. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 63 , e202400424. https://doi.org/10.1002/anie. 202400424.
14. Tanaka, Y., Ueno, K., Mizuno, K., Takeuchi, K., Asano, T., and Sakai, A. (2023). New Oxyhalide Solid Electrolytes with High Lithium Ionic Conductivity &gt;10 mS cm /C0 1 for All-Solid-State Batteries. Angew. Chem. 62 , e202217581. https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202217581.
15. Adams, S. (2024). Origin of Fast Li+-Ion Conductivity in the Compressible Oxyhalide LiNbOCl4. Energy Storage Mater. 68 , 103359. https://doi.org/ 10.1016/j.ensm.2024.103359.
16. Singh, B., Wang, Y., Liu, J., Bazak, J.D., Shyamsunder, A., and Nazar, L.F. (2024). Critical Role of Framework Flexibility and Disorder in Driving High Ionic Conductivity in LiNbOCl4. J. Am. Chem. Soc. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 146 , 17158-17169. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.4c03142.
17. Meyer, W., and Neldel, H. (1937). Z. Tech. Phys. 12 , 588.
18. Dienes, G.J. (1950). Frequency Factor and Activation Energy for the Volume Diffusion of Metals. J. Appl. Phys. 21 , 1189-1192. https://doi.org/ 10.1063/1.1699563.
19. Takamure, N., Sun, X., Nagata, T., Ho-Baillie, A., Fukata, N., and McKenzie, D.R. (2022). Thermodynamic Interpretation of the Meyer-Neldel Rule Explains Temperature Dependence of Ion Diffusion in Silicate Glass. Phys. Rev. Lett. 129 , 175901. https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.129. 175901.
20. Hautier, G., Fischer, C., Ehrlacher, V., Jain, A., and Ceder, G. (2011). Data Mined Ionic Substitutions for the Discovery of New Compounds. Inorg. Chem. 50 , 656-663. https://doi.org/10.1021/ic102031h.
21. Jain, A., Ong, S.P., Hautier, G., Chen, W., Richards, W.D., Dacek, S., Cholia, S., Gunter, D., Skinner, D., Ceder, G., and Persson, K.A. (2013). Commentary: The Materials Project: A materials genome approach to accelerating materials innovation. Apl. Mater. 1 . https://doi.org/10.1063/ 1.4812323.
22. Kunz, M., and Brown, I. (1995). Out-of-Center Distortions around Octahedrally Coordinated d0 Transition Metals. J. Solid State Chem. 115 , 395-406. https://doi.org/10.1006/jssc.1995.1150.
23. Halasyamani, P.S. (2004). Asymmetric Cation Coordination in Oxide Materials: Influence of Lone-Pair Cations on the Intra-octahedral Distortion in d 0 Transition Metals. Chem. Mater. 16 , 3586-3592. https://doi.org/10. 1021/cm049297g.
24. Wang, S., Bai, Q., Nolan, A.M., Liu, Y., Gong, S., Sun, Q., and Mo, Y. (2019). Lithium Chlorides and Bromides as Promising Solid-State Chemistries for Fast Ion Conductors with Good Electrochemical Stability. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. Engl. 58 , 8039-8043. https://doi.org/10.1002/anie. 201901938.
25. Zhao, T., Samanta, B., de Irujo-Labalde, X.M., Whang, G., Yadav, N., Kraft, M.A., Adelhelm, P., Hansen, M.R., and Zeier, W.G. (2024). Sodium Metal Oxyhalides NaMOCl4 (M = Nb, Ta) with High Ionic Conductivities. ACS Mater. Lett. 6 , 3683-3689. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsmaterialslett. 4c01145.
26. Aykol, M., Dwaraknath, S.S., Sun, W., and Persson, K.A. (2018). Thermodynamic limit for synthesis of metastable inorganic materials. Sci. Adv 4 , eaaq0148. https://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.aaq0148.
27. Sun, W., Dacek, S.T., Ong, S.P., Hautier, G., Jain, A., Richards, W.D., Gamst, A.C., Persson, K.A., and Ceder, G. (2016). The thermodynamic scale of inorganic crystalline metastability. Sci. Adv. 2 , e1600225. https://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.1600225.
28. Richards, W.D., Miara, L.J., Wang, Y., Kim, J.C., and Ceder, G. (2016). Interface Stability in Solid-State Batteries. Chem. Mater. 28 , 266-273. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.5b04082.
29. Zhu, Y., He, X., and Mo, Y. (2015). Origin of Outstanding Stability in the Lithium Solid Electrolyte Materials: Insights from Thermodynamic

Analyses Based on First-Principles Calculations. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 7 , 23685-23693. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.5b07517.

30. Xiao, Y., Miara, L.J., Wang, Y., and Ceder, G. (2019). Computational Screening of Cathode Coatings for Solid-State Batteries. Joule 3 , 12521275. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joule.2019.02.006.
31. Seo, D.-H., Lee, J., Urban, A., Malik, R., Kang, S., and Ceder, G. (2016). The structural and chemical origin of the oxygen redox activity in layered and cation-disordered Li-excess cathode materials. Nat. Chem. 8 , 692-697. https://doi.org/10.1038/nchem.2524.
32. Xiao, Y., Jun, K., Wang, Y., Miara, L.J., Tu, Q., and Ceder, G. (2021). Lithium Oxide Superionic Conductors Inspired by Garnet and NASICON Structures. Adv. Energy Mater. 11 , 2101437. https://doi.org/10.1002/ aenm.202101437.
33. Jun, K., Sun, Y., Xiao, Y., Zeng, Y., Kim, R., Kim, H., Miara, L.J., Im, D., Wang, Y., and Ceder, G. (2022). Lithium superionic conductors with corner-sharing frameworks. Nat. Mater. 21 , 924-931. https://doi.org/10. 1038/s41563-022-01222-4.
34. Hussain, F., Zhu, J., Zhao, Y., and Xia, W. (2024). Exploring superionic conduction in lithium oxyhalide solid electrolytes considering composition and structural factors. npj Comput. Mater. 10 , 148. https://doi.org/10. 1038/s41524-024-01346-y.
35. Marcolongo, A., and Marzari, N. (2017). Ionic correlations and failure of Nernst-Einstein relation in solid-state electrolytes. Phys. Rev. Mater. 1 , 025402. https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevMaterials.1.025402.
36. Zhong, P., Gupta, S., Deng, B., Jun, K., and Ceder, G. (2024). Effect of Cation Disorder on Lithium Transport in Halide Superionic Conductors. ACS Energy Lett. 9 , 2775-2781. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett. 4c00799.
37. Liu, Y., Wang, S., Nolan, A.M., Ling, C., and Mo, Y. (2020). Tailoring the Cation Lattice for Chloride Lithium-Ion Conductors. Adv. Energy Mater 10 , 2002356. https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202002356.
38. Yin, Y.-C., Yang, J.-T., Luo, J.-D., Lu, G.-X., Huang, Z., Wang, J.-P., Li, P., Li, F., Wu, Y.-C., Tian, T., et al. (2023). A LaCl3-based lithium superionic conductor compatible with lithium metal. Nature 616 , 77-83. https://doi. org/10.1038/s41586-023-05899-8.
39. Gao, Y., Li, N., Wu, Y., Yang, W., and Bo, S.-H. (2021). Rethinking the Design of Ionic Conductors Using Meyer-Neldel-Conductivity Plot. Adv. Energy Mater. 11 , 2100325. https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202100325.
40. Muy, S., Bachman, J.C., Chang, H.-H., Giordano, L., Maglia, F., Lupart, S., Lamp, P., Zeier, W.G., and Shao-Horn, Y. (2018). Lithium Conductivity and Meyer-Neldel Rule in Li3PO4-Li3VO4-Li4GeO4 Lithium Superionic Conductors. Chem. Mater. 30 , 5573-5582. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.8b01504.
41. Flores-Gonza ´ lez, N., Lo ´ pez, M., Minafra, N., Bohnenberger, J., Vin ˜ es, F., Rudi /C19 c, S., Krossing, I., Zeier, W.G., Illas, F., and Gregory, D.H. (2022). Understanding the effect of lattice polarisability on the electrochemical properties of lithium tetrahaloaluminates, LiAlX 4 (X = Cl, Br, I). J. Mater. Chem. A 10 , 13467-13475. https://doi.org/10.1039/D2TA02821B.
42. Krauskopf, T., Pompe, C., Kraft, M.A., and Zeier, W.G. (2017). Influence of Lattice Dynamics on Na+ Transport in the Solid Electrolyte Na3PS4-xSex. Chem. Mater. 29 , 8859-8869. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater. 7b03474.
43. Kraft, M.A., Culver, S.P., Calderon, M., Bo ¨ cher, F., Krauskopf, T., Senyshyn, A., Dietrich, C., Zevalkink, A., Janek, J., and Zeier, W.G. (2017). Influence of Lattice Polarizability on the Ionic Conductivity in the Lithium Superionic Argyrodites Li6PS5X (X = Cl, Br, I). J. Am. Chem. Soc. 139 , 10909-10918. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b06327.
44. Murugan, R., Thangadurai, V., and Weppner, W. (2007). Fast lithium ion conduction in garnet-type Li(7)La(3)Zr(2)O(12). Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. Engl. 46 , 7778-7781. https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.200701144.
45. Li, X., Liang, J., Adair, K.R., Li, J., Li, W., Zhao, F., Hu, Y., Sham, T.-K., Zhang, L., Zhao, S., et al. (2020). Origin of Superionic Li3Y1-xInxCl6 Halide

Solid Electrolytes with High Humidity Tolerance. Nano Lett. 20 , 43844392. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.0c01156.

46. Jun, K., Lee, B., Kam, R.L., and Ceder, G. (2024). The nonexistence of a paddlewheel effect in superionic conductors. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 121 , e2316493121. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2316493121.
47. Huynh, D.Q. (2009). Metrics for 3D Rotations: Comparison and Analysis. J. Math. Imag. Vis. 35 , 155-164. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10851-0090161-2.
48. Sebti, E., Evans, H.A., Chen, H., Richardson, P.M., White, K.M., Giovine, R., Koirala, K.P., Xu, Y., Gonzalez-Correa, E., Wang, C., et al. (2022). Stacking Faults Assist Lithium-Ion Conduction in a Halide-Based Superionic Conductor. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 144 , 5795-5811. https://doi.org/10. 1021/jacs.1c11335.
49. Wang, K., Ren, Q., Gu, Z., Duan, C., Wang, J., Zhu, F., Fu, Y., Hao, J., Zhu, J., He, L., et al. (2021). A cost-effective and humidity-tolerant chloride solid electrolyte for lithium batteries. Nat. Commun. Now. 12 , 4410. https://doi. org/10.1038/s41467-021-24697-2.
50. Li, F., Cheng, X., Lu, L.-L., Yin, Y.-C., Luo, J.-D., Lu, G., Meng, Y.-F., Mo, H., Tian, T., Yang, J.-T., et al. (2022). Stable All-Solid-State Lithium Metal Batteries Enabled by Machine Learning Simulation Designed Halide Electrolytes. Nano Lett. 22 , 2461-2469. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett. 2c00187.
51. Xu, M., Park, M.S., Lee, J.M., Kim, T.Y., Park, Y.S., and Ma, E. (2012). Mechanisms of Li + transport in garnet-type cubic Li3+ x La3 M 2O12 ( M = Te, Nb, Zr). Phys. Rev. B 85 , 052301. https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevB.85.052301.
52. Aono, H., Sugimoto, E., Sadaoka, Y., Imanaka, N., and Adachi, G. (1990). Ionic Conductivity of Solid Electrolytes Based on Lithium Titanium Phosphate. J. Electrochem. Soc. 137 , 1023-1027. https://doi.org/10.1149/1. 2086597.
53. Aono, H., Sugimoto, E., Sadaoka, Y., Imanaka, N., and Adachi, G. (1990). Ionic conductivity and sinterability of lithium titanium phosphate system. Solid State Ionics 40-41 , 38-42. https://doi.org/10.1016/0167-2738(90) 90282-V.
54. Deng, B., Zhong, P., Jun, K., Riebesell, J., Han, K., Bartel, C.J., and Ceder, G. (2023). CHGNet as a pretrained universal neural network potential for charge-informed atomistic modelling. Nat. Mach. Intell. 5 , 1031-1041. https://doi.org/10.1038/s42256-023-00716-3.
55. Musaelian, A., Batzner, S., Johansson, A., Sun, L., Owen, C.J., Kornbluth, M., and Kozinsky, B. (2023). Learning local equivariant representations for large-scale atomistic dynamics. Nat. Commun. 14 , 579. https://doi.org/ 10.1038/s41467-023-36329-y.
56. Chen, C., and Ong, S.P. (2022). A universal graph deep learning interatomic potential for the periodic table. Nat. Comput. Sci. 2 , 718-728. https://doi.org/10.1038/s43588-022-00349-3.
57. Batzner, S., Musaelian, A., Sun, L., Geiger, M., Mailoa, J.P., Kornbluth, M., Molinari, N., Smidt, T.E., and Kozinsky, B. (2022). E(3)-equivariant graph neural networks for data-efficient and accurate interatomic potentials. Nat. Commun. 13 , 2453. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467022-29939-5.
58. Batatia, I., Benner, P., Chiang, Y., Elena, A.M., Kova ´ cs, D.P., Riebesell, J., Advincula, X.R., Asta, M., Avaylon, M., Baldwin, W.J., et al. (2023). A foundation model for atomistic materials chemistry. Preprint at arXiv.org. https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.00096v2.
59. Kresse, G., and Furthm € uller, J. (1996). Efficient iterative schemes for ab initio total-energy calculations using a plane-wave basis set. Phys. Rev. B 54 , 11169-11186. https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevB.54.11169.
60. Perdew, J.P., Burke, K., and Ernzerhof, M. (1996). Generalized Gradient Approximation Made Simple. Phys. Rev. Lett. 77 , 3865-3868. https:// doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.77.3865.
61. Barto ´ k, A.P., and Yates, J.R. (2019). Regularized SCAN functional. J. Chem. Phys. 150 . https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5094646.

62. Grimme, S., Antony, J., Ehrlich, S., and Krieg, H. (2010). A consistent and accurate ab initio parametrization of density functional dispersion correction (DFT-D) for the 94 elements H-Pu. J. Chem. Phys. 132 , 154104. https://doi.org/10.1063/1.3382344.
63. Ogorodnikov, V.V., and Rogovoi, Y.I. (1995). Buckingham-potential parameters and relations between them for solids. Powder Metall. Met. Ceram 33 , 327-333. https://doi.org/10.1007/BF00560208.
64. Merchant, A., Batzner, S., Schoenholz, S.S., Aykol, M., Cheon, G., and Cubuk, E.D. (2023). Scaling deep learning for materials discovery. Nature 624 , 80-85. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-023-06735-9.
65. He, X., Zhu, Y., Epstein, A., and Mo, Y. (2018). Statistical variances of diffusional properties from ab initio molecular dynamics simulations. npj Comput. Mater. 4 , 18. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41524-018-0074-y.