Contents lists available at ScienceDirect

## Journal of Solid State Chemistry

journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/jssc

## Complex high-temperature phase transitions in Li2B12H12 and Na2B12H12

Nina Verdal a,b, n , Jae-Hyuk Her c , Vitalie Stavila d , Alexei V. Soloninin e , Olga A. Babanova e , Alexander V. Skripov e , Terrence J. Udovic a , John J. Rush a,b

- a NIST Center for Neutron Research, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD 20899-6102, United States
- b Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Maryland, College Park, MD 20742-2115, United States
- c GE Global Research, 1 Research Circle, Niskayuna, NY 12309, United States
- d Sandia National Laboratories, Livermore, CA 94551, United States
- e Institute of Metal Physics, Ural Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences, S. Kovalevskoi 18, Ekaterinburg 620990, Russia

## a r t i c l e i n f o

Article history: Received 4 December 2013 Received in revised form 2 January 2014 Accepted 6 January 2014 Available online 13 January 2014

Keywords: Dodecaborate Neutron powder diffraction Orientational disorder Phase transition Ion mobility Superionic conductor

## 1. Introduction

The room-temperature crystal structures of the light-alkali-metal dodecahydrocloso -dodecaborates, Li2B12H12 (cubic, Pa 3 ̄ symmetry) and Na2B12H12 (monoclinic, P 21 /n symmetry), were recently determined by X-ray powder diffraction (XRPD) [1,2]. These relatively lowmolecular-weight materials are of importance in hydrogen-storage research because they are potential side-products of considerable stability during the dehydrogenation of the light-metal borohydrides LiBH4 and NaBH4 [3 -7]. Since icosahedral dodecahydrocloso -dodecaborate (B12H12 2 /C0 ) anion formation during hydrogen cycling of

n Corresponding author at: NIST Center for Neutron Research, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD 20899-6102, United States. Tel.: 1 301 975 6027; fax: 1 301 921 9847.

E-mail address:

nina.verdal@nist.gov (N. Verdal).

þ

þ

## a b s t r a c t

Differential scanning calorimetry measurements of Li2B12H12 and Na2B12H12 indicate hysteretic transformations to high-temperature phases at E 615 K and 529 K, respectively, upon heating (1 K/min) from room temperature. X-ray and neutron powder diffraction measurements corroborate the phase-change behavior. For Li2B12H12, the diffraction data are consistent with a previous study suggesting that the overall face-centered-cubic arrangement of icosahedral B12H12 2 /C0 anions is maintained upon transformation to the high-temperature polymorph, although the anions are now orientationally disordered and the Li þ cations crystallographically disordered within an enlarged lattice. For Na2B12H12, the diffraction data indicate the existence of three different high-temperature phases in addition to the known low-temperature monoclinic phase. The highest-temperature structure possesses Im 3 ̄ m symmetry and exhibits a body-centered-cubic arrangement of orientationally disordered anions. The interstitial, disordered Na þ cations appear to favor off-center positions within the distorted tetrahedral sites formed by the anions in this structure. An intermediate Pm 3 ̄ n -symmetric phase at lower temperature is the result of a partial ordering of this higher-temperature structure. A third, minor, face-centered-cubic phase coexists with these high-temperature polymorphs. 1 H NMR measurements of Li2B12H12 and Na2B12H12 reveal an approximately two-orders-of-magnitude increase in the reorientational jump rate of the anions in both cases upon transformation to their high-temperature structures. The enhanced anion mobilities were corroborated by neutron scattering /uniFB01 xed-window scans across the respective phase boundaries. The inherent cation disorder associated with these high-temperature polymorphs suggests their potential use as superionic conductors.

&amp; 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

borohydride materials is essentially irreversible under normal cycling conditions, it is considered an undesirable impediment to borohydride reversibility and storage capacity [8]. Knowing the structural behavior of the dodecahydrocloso -dodecaborates will aid in our understanding of their thermodynamic properties, which, in turn, is key to a better understanding and possible minimization of their formation pathways.

Previously, Li2B12H12 and Na2B12H12 were found to maintain their somewhat unusual crystal structures down to low temperatures [1,2]. It was of interest to us to determine if either compound underwent a phase transition above room temperature, at a temperature closer to those reached during hydrogen cycling of the parent borohydrides. Very recently, Paskevicius et al. [9], using synchrotron X-ray diffraction, reported that Li2B12H12 indeed undergoes a /uniFB01 rst-order phase transition at 628 K resulting in an 8.7% expansion of the unit cell volume of the pseudo-face-centered cubic

structure with possible orientational disorder for the B12H12 2 /C0 anions and crystallographic disorder for the Li þ cations, in general agreement with our present /uniFB01 ndings. In this paper, we report that, in addition to Li2B12H12, Na2B12H12 undergoes higher-temperature structural phase transitions. For both compounds, these transitions are accompanied by dramatic changes in the reorientational dynamics of the B12H12 2 /C0 anion. These high-temperature phases are important to consider in any thermodynamic analysis of the potential reaction pathways during LiBH4 and NaBH4 cycling.

## 2. Experimental details

Li2B12H12 and Na2B12H12 with natural-abundance B ( 11 B: 10 B ¼ 80:20) were prepared by previously published methods [8,10,11]. Isotopically enriched Li2 11 B12H12, Na2 11 B12H12, and Na2 11 B12D12 were synthesized by cation exchange starting with the appropriate dicesium analog Cs2 11 B12H12 or Cs2 11 B12D12 ( 4 98% chemical purity, 99.5% 11 B isotopic purity, from Katchem [12]). Minimizing the strongly neutron-absorbing 10 B in the samples greatly increases the observed diffraction intensities. Moreover, using a deuterated sample for neutron powder diffraction (NPD) measurements avoids the otherwise much larger incoherent scattering background from H. In practice, we found via low-temperature NPD measurements of the monoclinic [2] Na2 11 B12D12 phase that the actual D:H atom ratio associated with the ' B12D12 2 /C0 ' anions was E 87:13. For simplicity, we refer to this sample throughout the paper as Na2 11 B12D12. [N.B., the presence of H in the Na2 11 B12D12 sample was corroborated by a comparison of the neutron vibrational spectrum of this sample with that for Na2B12H12 [2]; see Fig. S1 in the Supporting information.] Prior to experiments, any residual water was removed from the samples by extended evacuation at 473 -523 K.

Differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) measurements with simultaneous thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) were performed on Li2B12H12 and Na2B12H12 using a Netzsch (STA 449 F1 Jupiter ) TGA-DSC under He /uniFB02 ow with Al or Al2O3 sample pans and temperature ramp rates ranging from 7 1 K/min to 7 10 K/min. Temperature readings were estimated to be accurate to within 7 1 K. XRPD data were collected with a Scintag XDS-2000 powder X-ray diffractometer using Cu K α radiation ( λ ¼ 1.5418 Å). In situ heating studies consisted of collecting a series of consecutive XRPD scans at various temperatures in a stainless steel/aluminum sample cell /uniFB01 tted with a beryllium window and equipped on the outside with a heating coil and two thermocouples for temperature control. The dry Li2B12H12 and Na2B12H12 samples were loaded into the in situ X-ray diffraction cell in a glovebox under argon and connected to the diffractometer through a manifold without exposure to air. Unless otherwise speci /uniFB01 ed, the samples were stabilized at every temperature for 1 h prior to measurement. Diffraction angles from 10 1 to 80 1 2 θ were used.

All neutron scattering measurements were performed at the NIST Center for Neutron Research. NPD measurements of Na2 11 B12D12 were performed on the BT-1 High-Resolution Powder Diffractometer [13] at an incident neutron wavelength of 1.5401 (2) Å with the Cu(311) monochromator and horizontal divergences of 60 0 , 20 0 , and 7 0 of arc for the in-pile, monochromatic-beam, and diffracted-beam collimators, respectively. The wavelength was calibrated using a NIST Si standard reference material. The NPD patterns were collected from the polycrystalline powder sample (0.5 g) contained in a cylindrical V can (5 cm height /C2 1 cm diameter; He/uniFB01 lled, Pb-gasket-sealed below 550 K; in vacuo, unsealed above 550 K) over the 2 θ range from 3 1 to 168 1 with a step size of 0.05 1 . Temperature regulation was accomplished in a He closed-cycle refrigerator. The BT-4 Triple-Axis spectrometer was also utilized with the pyrolytic graphite (002) monochromator at an incident neutron wavelength of 2.359(1) Å to follow in more detail the temperature dependences of the intensities and positions of selected Na2 11 B12D12 and Na2 11 B12H12 Bragg peaks. In-pile, monochromatic-beam, and diffracted-beam collimators, all with 40 0 of arc, were used in conjunction with a pyrolytic graphite analyzer to improve the signal-to-noise ratio of the scattered beam. The neutron vibrational spectrum ( v ide supra ) of the Na2 11 B12D12 sample was measured using the Filter-Analyzer Neutron Spectrometer [14] with 20 0 horizontal collimations before and after the Cu(220) monochromator. The neutron elastic-scattering /uniFB01 xed-window scans for Li2 11 B12H12 and Na2 11 B12H12 were measured using the High-Flux Backscattering Spectrometer [15].

Rietveld re /uniFB01 nements [16] associated with the NPD data were performed using the TOPAS-Commercial package [17] assuming neutron scattering amplitudes of (3.63, 6.65, 6.67, and /C0 3.74) fm for Na, 11 B, D, and H, respectively. 11 A D:H ratio of 87(1):13(1), determined from the /uniFB01 t at 7 K, was /uniFB01 xed throughout subsequent re /uniFB01 nements of the high-temperature phases, assuming a random distribution of the D and H atoms in the anions. Wavelength errors were not included in the standard deviations of the unit cells; i.e. , the precisions reported in this paper for the structural parameters re /uniFB02 ect the quality of the data and the corresponding re /uniFB01 nement model, assuming a /uniFB01 xed neutron wavelength. (N.B., throughout this paper for simplicity, we refer to structural arrangements of B12H12 2 /C0 anions as body-centered cubic (bcc) or face-centered cubic (fcc), whether or not the anions are all azimuthally aligned. Strictly speaking, lattices of orientationally misaligned B12H12 2 /C0 anions are more appropriately described as ' pseudo-bcc ' or ' pseudo-fcc. ' )

1 H and 11 B NMR measurements were performed at the Institute of Metal Physics (Ekaterinburg) on a modernized Bruker SXP pulse spectrometer with quadrature phase detection at resonance frequencies ω /2 π equal to 14 MHz ( 1 H), 23.8 MHz ( 1 H) and 28 MHz ( 11 B). The magnetic /uniFB01 eld was generated by a 2.1 T iron-core Bruker magnet. Field stabilization was accomplished with a home-built multinuclear continuous-wave NMR magnetometer working in the range of (0.32 -2.15) T. Radio frequency pulse generation was provided by a home-built computer-controlled pulse programmer, a PTS frequency synthesizer (Programmed Test Sources, Inc.), and a 1 kW Kalmus wideband pulse ampli /uniFB01 er. Typical values of the π /2 pulse length were (2 -3) μ s. Before the measurements, samples were /uniFB02 ame-sealed in a glass tube. All the NMR measurements were performed with increasing temperature and with a half-hour stabilization time at each temperature prior to a measurement. For NMR measurements at and below 470 K, a probehead with the sample was placed into an Oxford Instruments CF1200 continuous/uniFB02 ow N2-cooled cryostat. The sample temperature was monitored using a chromel -(Au -Fe) thermocouple with a stability of 7 0.1 K. Measurements in the temperature range of (470 -560) K were performed using a furnace probehead. Under these conditions, the sample temperature was monitored using a copper -constantan thermocouple with a stability of 7 0.5 K. The proton spin -lattice relaxation rates were determined using the saturation-recovery method. NMR spectra were recorded by Fourier transforming the spin echo signals.

It should be noted that, for all /uniFB01 gures in this paper and supplemental information, standard uncertainties, if not explicitly designated by vertical error bars, are commensurate with the observed scatter in the data.

## 3. Results and discussion

## 3.1. DSC studies

The DSC measurements for both anhydrous Li2B12H12 and Na2B12H12 are summarized in Fig. 1. Heating Li2B12H12 at 1 K/min

Fig. 1. The DSC measurements of Li2B12H12 (top) show a hysteretic phase transition at 615 K upon heating (1 K/min) and 596 K upon cooling (2 K/min) (indicated by arrows). The DSC measurements of Na2B12H12 (middle) and Na2 11 B12D12 (bottom) show a hysteretic phase transition at 529 K (523 K deuterated) (upon heating from room temperature, 1 K/min) and at 483 K (482 K deuterated) (upon cooling from 600 K, 1 K/min). A small exothermic event is seen upon cooling at 522 K (for Na2B12H12) and at 521 K (for Na2 11 B12D12).

from room temperature yields a two-step endothermic phase transition with an onset at 615 K, with no accompanying mass loss. Such a feature was /uniFB01 rst observed by Huang et al. [18] during the deammoniation of Li2B12H12 · 7NH3 and more recently by Pitt et al. [19] during the dehydration of Li2B12H12 · x H2O. Integrated together and compared with DSC results for indium and zinc melting enthalpies, the transition enthalpy is estimated to be E 20 kJ/mol Li2B12H12 (assuming complete transformation). Upon cooling at 2 K/min, the onset of a hysteretic phase transition is observed at 596 K. It was determined that heating the Li2B12H12 higher than E 640 K accelerated an irreversible structural transformation (assumed to be some type of decomposition), resulting in the inhibition, upon cooling, of the exothermic peak that signals the reversion back to the low-temperature polymorph. Even for maximum heating temperatures below 640 K, the subsequent exothermic peak during cooling was somewhat smaller than expected, re /uniFB02 ecting either a partial decomposition of the sample or a tendency for a portion of the high-temperature phase to persist for some period of time as the sample cools towards room temperature. Although the latter tendency has indeed been seen for the Cs2B12 X 12 ( X ¼ Cl, Br, and I) compounds upon cooling to room temperature from their high-temperature polymorphs [20,21], the studies by Pitt et al. [19] and Paskevicius et al. [9] con /uniFB01 rm that some loss of hydrogen occurs above the phase transition temperature leading to a decomposed, H-poor Li2B12H12 /C0 x nanocrystalline polymorph. Hwang et al. [22] and the TGA results of Pitt et al. [19] suggest that the loss of hydrogen between the phase transition and 873 K amounts to about two H atoms per Li2B12H12 formula unit.

Heating Na2B12H12 at 1 K/min from room temperature yields an endothermic phase transition at E 529 K, again with no accompanying mass loss. Such a feature was /uniFB01 rst observed by Tiritiris [20] during the thermal decomposition of Na2(H2O)4B12H12. Subsequent cooling of the high-temperature phase leads to a hysteretic reversion to the low-temperature phase at E 483 K. Before this reversion, a weak precursor exothermic peak appears upon cooling at E 522 K. This suggests the presence of a secondary transition, either a lambda-type order -disorder transition of the supercooled high-temperature phase as observed for Cs2B12H12 near 529 K [23], above which the B12H12 2 /C0 anions become orientationally disordered, or a transient formation of a structurally distinct metastable intermediate phase as observed for Cs2B12Cl12 and Cs2B12Br12 [20]. From the area of the main 529 K DSC transition peak compared with that of standard Zn and In melting point transition peaks, we estimate an enthalpy change of E 6 kJ/mol Na2B12H12 (again assuming complete transformation). Similar DSC results are shown in Fig. 1 for Na2 11 B12D12 over the same temperature range, although the endothermic peak upon heating appeared somewhat broadened. Performing a DSC measurement of Na2B12H12 (at þ 5 K/min) up to 970 K indicated the onset of an initial loss of mass ( E 1.1% mass fraction, see Fig. S2) at around 885 K, which corresponds well with the loss of two H atoms per Na2B12H12 formula unit. This mass loss was accompanied by an endothermic peak centered at 923 K re /uniFB02 ecting an apparent enthalpy change of E 9 kJ/mol Na2B12H12. This initial hydrogen loss is similar to the amount reported for Li2B12H12 above its phase transition [22]. In contrast, TGA-MS results of Caputo et al. [6] for fully hydrated Na2B12H12 have suggested that an unspeci /uniFB01 ed small amount of H2 may already be released at temperatures well below 773 K, but the hydrogen signal was accompanied by simultaneous losses of water, even up to 773 K. It appears that the temperature ramp rate in this work may have been too large to completely remove water from the sample at lower temperatures. Thus its presence at higher temperatures may have compromised the behavior of the Na2B12H12, although it appears that the overwhelming mass loss was due to water removal with relatively little hydrogen loss (well below what we observed at higher temperatures) on a molar basis.

## 3.2. Diffraction studies

To con /uniFB01 rm that structural changes were indeed occurring, we performed a sequence of XRPD measurements for Li2B12H12 and Na2B12H12 at various temperatures. Fig. 2 summarizes the XRPD results for Li2B12H12 in the following temperature sequence: 298 K, 473 K, 573 K, 603 K, 618 K, and 623 K. Consistent with the DSC results and the study by Paskevicius et al. [9] the data con /uniFB01 rm the appearance of a new, albeit highly disordered, cubic phase somewhere between 573 K and 603 K upon heating from the known low-temperature cubic phase. In addition to two new broad Bragg

Fig. 2. XRPD patterns for Li2B12H12 as a function of increasing temperature. The higher-angle data are ampli /uniFB01 ed a factor of 14 compared with the low-angle data. The asterisks mark scattering features from the Mg -Al sample spacer and Be window.

peaks at E 15.3 1 and 17.7 1 , the Bragg peaks near 15.6 1 and 18.1 1 , as well as more minor features at higher angles, indicate that some fraction of low-temperature cubic phase persists above the main phase transition. By 603 K and above, the relative fraction of the low-temperature phase decreases. Patterns up to 623 K display a signi /uniFB01 cant amount of diffuse background scattering, re /uniFB02 ecting a highly disordered, almost amorphous-like nature for the additional fraction of what is assumed to be hydrogen-de /uniFB01 cient Li2B12H12 /C0 x , a product of decomposed Li2B12H12, at these temperatures.

A closer look at the progression of the phase transition between 578 K and 603 K with annealing time is highlighted in Fig. 3 with a second Li2B12H12 sample. After raising the temperature from room temperature to 598 K and annealing for 1 h, it is clear that the high-temperature polymorph is already appearing, in addition to the low-temperature phase. Although all of the Bragg features are attenuated and reside above a diffuse background, the distribution and relative intensities of the new Bragg peaks from the hightemperature polymorph roughly mirror those for the lowtemperature cubic phase, but are downshifted in angle. This suggests that the B12H12 2 /C0 anions of the high-temperature polymorph are still arranged in an fcc fashion, similar to the anions of the low-temperature phase, albeit orientationally disordered and with a somewhat larger lattice constant, which is consistent with the β -Li2B12H12 phase reported by Paskevicius et al. [9]. Moreover, since there are six B atoms per Li þ cation in Li2B12H12, the attenuated Bragg features are dominated by scattering from the more numerous, higher-Z, B atoms, making it dif /uniFB01 cult to pinpoint the Li þ locations. As the sample is further annealed at 598 K for 2 h, 4 h, and 8 h, the Bragg features slowly attenuate, indicating

Fig. 3. XRPD patterns for Li2B12H12 as a function of increasing temperature after sequential annealing times at the speci /uniFB01 ed temperatures. The higher-angle data are ampli /uniFB01 ed a factor of 19 compared with the low-angle data. For the bottom three patterns, the intensity of the low-angle data is also ampli /uniFB01 ed for ease of viewing. The hash marks denote the peak position at room temperature after heating (red, 2 θ E 15.5 1 and 18.0 1 ) and before heating (blue, 2 θ E 16.0 1 and 18.5 1 ). The asterisks mark scattering features from the Mg -Al sample spacer and Be window. (For interpretation of the references to color in this /uniFB01 gure caption, the reader is referred to the web version of this paper.)

that both the lowand high-temperature phases are slowly decomposing. Further sequential annealing times at 603 K lead to a continuation of this trend. By the time of the last 24 h annealing, the only Bragg peaks still clearly evident are the lowest-angle features. The attenuated Bragg peaks at 603 K do not recover any lost intensity upon cooling to room temperature, corroborating that the majority of the sample after the annealing procedures is irreversibly decomposed.

From Figs. 2 and 3, there are also no obvious additional changes in the XRPD data between 578 K and 623 K (besides the appearance of the high-temperature polymorph) that would correspond to the presence of an intermediate phase as hinted at by the bimodal transition peaks in the DSC measurements in Fig. 1. It is possible that the additional DSC structure is due to the presence of an additional γ -Li2B12H12 nanocrystalline polymorph reported by Pitt et al. [19] which possesses only very broad diffraction halos. According to Fig. 3, cooling the remaining high-temperature polymorph from 603 K down to room temperature fails to cause immediate reversion back to the low-temperature phase. Indeed, the room-temperature positions of the lowest-angle Bragg peaks at E 15.5 1 and 18.0 1 2 θ are about 0.5 1 lower than the expected positions for the low-temperature phase at E 16.0 1 and 18.5 1 2 θ (for comparison, see the initial room-temperature pattern in Fig. 2 and the lines marking the expected positions in Fig. 3). This is probably due to a persisting high-temperature polymorph and/or metastable intermediate phase and may be further complicated by the presence of the decomposed fraction of Li2B12H12 /C0 x .

Fig. 4 summarizes the XRPD results for Na2B12H12 in the following sequence: 298 K, 503 K, 553 K, 533 K, 493 K, 433 K, and 298 K. Again, consistent with the DSC results, the data con /uniFB01 rm that there is a clear phase transition occurring between 503 K and 553 K upon heating. Upon cooling from 553 K to 533 K, there appears to be some minor changes in the pattern, pointing to the transformation to a related, lower-symmetry, intermediate phase ( e.g. , see the extra peaks near 24.9 1 and 40.5 1 ), possibly coinciding with the small exothermic peak at E 522 K upon cooling in the

Fig. 4. XRPD patterns for Na2B12H12 as a function of changing temperature. The higher-angle data are ampli /uniFB01 ed a factor of 8 compared with the low-angle data. Red lines mark the (210) and (320) re /uniFB02 ections near 24.9 1 and 40.5 1 , respectively, which are present at 533 K yet absent at 553 K. The asterisk marks a scattering feature from the beryllium window. For the 533 K and 553 K patterns, features from an additional minor polymorphic fcc-like phase are marked by ' /C2 ' s, while suspected features from an unknown impurity are marked by ' ? ' s. (For interpretation of the references to color in this /uniFB01 gure caption, the reader is referred to the web version of this paper.)

corresponding DSC measurement in Fig. 1. Upon further cooling to 493 K, the pattern suggests a substantial reversion back to the low-temperature phase, although the complete reversion occurs somewhere between 493 K and 433 K. This is higher in temperature than implied by the DSC data, but most likely re /uniFB02 ects the 1 h equilibration time and subsequent, much longer measurement time for each XRPD pattern, which may very well allow the high-temperature phase at 493 K to transform back to the lowtemperature phase prior to the initial stages of the XRPD measurement. Figs. S3 -S5 further compare the XRPD data at 298 K, 533 K, and 553 K with simulated diffraction patterns as guided by the NPD-derived model structures described below. From the XRPD data at 553 K and 533 K, it is clear that there is a second minor high-temperature polymorph present that indexes to an expanded fcc lattice, similar to what is observed for hightemperature Li2B12H12, the strongest peak being the (111) re /uniFB02 ection near 14.7 1 . Moreover, there are several small peaks (with the strongest near 20.5 1 ) due to an unknown impurity that are present at all temperatures measured. The indexed peaks from the minor fcc phase and the impurity peaks are labeled in Figs. 4, S3 -S5.

To help characterize the structural behavior in more detail via Rietveld re /uniFB01 nement, we also collected NPD patterns of Na2 11 B12D12 at various temperatures in the following order: 298 K, 498 K, 547 K, 528 K, 498 K, 7 K, and 675 K (see Fig. S6). The patterns follow the general progression of transformations re /uniFB02 ected by the DSC and XRPD measurements, although unlike the observed minor structural differences evidenced by the 553 K and 533 K XRPD patterns for Na2B12H12, there are no obvious changes in the high-temperature NPD patterns for Na2 11 B12D12 between 547 K and 498 K. Indeed, the high-temperature NPD patterns for Na2 11 B12D12 between 547 K and 498 K were found to re /uniFB02 ect the same intermediate structure as the 533 K XRPD pattern for Na2B12H12. Surprisingly, additional diffraction NPD measurements (see Fig. S7) following the slow disappearance of the (320) Bragg re /uniFB02 ection associated with the Na2 11 B12D12 peak near 40.5 1

in Fig. S6 showed that the transformation to the highesttemperature Na2 11 B12D12 structure corresponding to the 553 K Na2B12H12 structure did not completely occur until about 660 K. In contrast, other related NPD measurements for Na2 11 B12H12 (not shown) suggested that the analogous transformation is already complete by E 545 K. This indicates that this disorder -disorder transition is much more second-order in nature for Na2 11 B12D12 with a large isotope effect. The /uniFB01 nal 675 K NPD pattern for Na2 11 B12D12 in Fig. S6 is evidence of this transformation. It should be noted that the minor fcc phase is also evident in the hightemperature NPD patterns, the strongest peak again being the (111) re /uniFB02 ection near 14.7 1 . Fig. 5 shows the patterns at 7 K, 298 K, 547 K, and 675 K as well as the corresponding model re /uniFB01 nements. The structural parameters for these re /uniFB01 nements as well as that for the high-temperature phase at 498 K are listed in Table S1. The increasing amount of diffuse background scattering with increasing temperature re /uniFB02 ects the increasing orientational disorder of the B12D12 2 /C0 icosahedra, as seen for Cs2 11 B12D12 [23].

A priori , one might expect monoclinic Na2B12H12 (Fig. 6) to transform to the cubic Fm 3 ̄ structure that typi /uniFB01 es [10] the three heavier, larger-unit-cell, alkali-metal dodecahydrocloso -dodecaborates A 2B12H12 ( A ¼ K, Rb, and Cs) at room temperature. Yet, our structural analysis indicates that, aside from a minor fcc-like polymorph component mentioned earlier, this is not the case. Rather, the predominant /uniFB01 rst high-temperature structure for Na2 11 B12D12 observed via NPD between 547 K and 498 K and coinciding with the 533 K XRPD structure for Na2B12H12 (see Fig. S4) was determined to be somewhat similar to the high-temperature structure found for Cs2B12 X 12 ( X ¼ Cl, Br, and I) [20,21,24]. These analogous anhydrous dicesium dodecahalocloso -dodecaborates are all reported to have hexagonal R 3 ̄ -symmetric α -phase polymorphs at room temperature that change to defective, W 3 O -type [25], high-temperature, β -phase structures with Pm 3 ̄ n symmetry. In these latter structures, [20] the B12 X 12 2 /C0 quasi-icosahedral anions are centered at the 2 a (0, 0, 0) O positions, arranged in a

Fig. 5. Observed (black circles), calculated (red lines), and difference pro /uniFB01 les (beneath) of the Rietveld-re /uniFB01 ned NPD patterns for Na2 11 B12D12 at 7 K and 298 K using the lowtemperature P 21 /n structural model, at 547 K using the high-temperature, partially disordered, Pm3 ̄ n structural model, and at 675 K using the highest-temperature, fully disordered, Im3 ̄ m structural model. Vertical bars denote the calculated Bragg peak positions. (For interpretation of the references to color in this /uniFB01 gure caption, the reader is referred to the web version of this paper.)

Fig. 6. Left to right: The low-temperature monoclinic ( P 21/ n , from Ref. [2]) and the proposed high-temperature, partially disordered Pm 3 ̄ n and fully disordered Im 3 ̄ m cubic Na2B12H12 structures viewed along the (001) direction. Yellow, purple, and pink spheres denote the Na, B, and H atoms, respectively. Atom positions in the Pm 3 ̄ n model re /uniFB02 ect those determined from model re /uniFB01 nement of the NPD data. Atom positions in the Im3 ̄ m model include all atom positions in the Pm 3 ̄ n structure plus a duplicate set of atom positions at ( x þ ½ , y þ ½ , z þ ½ ). All cation sites are, from left to right, fully, one-third, and one-sixth occupied, respectively. The number of superimposed anions/ occupation of each at all anion sites, from left to right, are one/fully, two/one-half, and four/one-fourth, respectively. (For interpretation of the references to color in this /uniFB01 gure caption, the reader is referred to the web version of this paper.)

body-centered cubic (bcc) fashion with B and X atoms at special 24 k positions. The Cs þ cations are statistically disordered among two-thirds of the corresponding 6 c W positions, leaving one-third of the sites vacant. The Cs þ cations are surrounded tetrahedrally by four B12 X 12 2 /C0 anions, interacting with three X atoms from a triangular face of each anion, so that each cation has an approximately cuboctahedral coordination with twelve X atoms.

The NPD re /uniFB01 nements indicate that the /uniFB01 rst high-temperature Na2 11 B12D12 structure (see Fig. 6) is a derivative of this W3O-type structure. Again, the B12D12 2 /C0 anions occupy the O positions, arranged in a bcc fashion, but unlike the B12 X 12 2 /C0 anions in β -Cs2B12 X 12, they are clearly orientationally disordered. In particular, in order to obtain a reasonable re /uniFB01 nement, it was necessary to create multiple disordered positions for the B and D atoms in the structure to mimic the azimuthal disorder, which may very well be so extensive as to make the anions appear on average as spherical shells of B and D if probed by a diffraction measurement. It was not clear how to best model this disorder, since there are probably myriad ways to do so. Nonetheless, we chose to use three sets of B and D atoms at 48 l sites. The crystal symmetry created an ' orientationally disordered anion ' at the center of each anion O position ( i.e. , 2 a (0, 0, 0); see Fig. 7b). Each disordered anion was composed of 72 B atoms and 72 D atoms, all with one-sixth occupancies, yielding an average ' B12D12 ' stoichiometry. Moreover, instead of the Na þ cations sitting at the W ( ¼ , 0, ½ ) 6 c special positions with two-thirds disordered occupancy, model re /uniFB01 nements suggested that they are further disordered by sitting at off-centered positions within the distorted tetrahedral sites formed by the bcc anion lattice. From the NPD data, the best /uniFB01 ts placed the Na þ cations at the ( /C24 0.33, 0, ½ ) 12 g positions with one-third occupancy, essentially splitting each W 6 c site into two 12 g sites. This increased Na þ cation disorder most likely promotes a large fraction of the observed anion orientational disorder.

The 553 K XRPD data for Na2B12H12 and the 675 K NPD data for Na2 11 B12D12 indicate a further order -disorder transition forming a more disordered, Im 3 ̄ m structure with atomic positions similar to those in the Pm 3 ̄ n structure. This secondary transition is evidenced by the disappearance of prominent XRPD peaks for Na2B12H12 at 24.9 1 and 40.5 1 2 θ , and weaker peaks at 46.6 1 , 62.0 1 , and 68.9 1 2 θ in Figs. 4, S4, and S5. These correspond to the respective extinctions of the (210), (320), (410), (520), and (531) re /uniFB02 ections within Im 3 ̄ m symmetry, where now ( hk 0) re /uniFB02 ections are forbidden unless h þ k ¼ 2 n , and ( hkl ) re /uniFB02 ections are forbidden unless h þ k þ l ¼ 2 n . These extinctions as well as others, such as the (421) re /uniFB02 ection near 52 1 2 θ , are also observed for the 675 K NPD pattern for Na2 11 B12D12 in Figs. S1 and 5. These extinctions result from a

Fig. 7. The possible (a) two-fold split and (b) four-fold tetrahedrally split Na þ cation positions within the distorted tetrahedral site of the high-temperature Na2B12H12 phases. Small yellow and large purple spheres denote the Na þ cations and B12H12 2 /C0 anions, respectively. The analogous Cs þ cation position in hightemperature Cs2B12 X 12 at the center of the tetrahedron bisects the Na þ cation positions and is marked by a plus sign. (For interpretation of the references to color in this /uniFB01 gure caption, the reader is referred to the web version of this paper.)

further disordering of the partially disordered Pm 3 ̄ n structure by (in effect) inclusion of a second set of superimposed B, H, and Na atoms at ( x þ ½ , y þ ½ , z þ ½ ) positions. Unlike the Pm 3 ̄ n structure where the disordered B12H12 2 /C0 anions at the center of the bcc unit cell have a different array of azimuthal B and H orientations than the anions at the corners, the anions in the Im 3 ̄ m structure all possess the same array of B and H orientations in 96 l sites. Moreover, the disordered (two-fold or four-fold) clusters of cation sites are now centered around 12 d positions, and all sites have an occupancy one-half of their occupancies in the lower-temperature, partially disordered structure. The resulting structure for two-fold cation clusters is shown schematically in Fig. 6. This Im 3 ̄ m structure is closely related to that observed for α -AgI [26],

in which the disordered Ag þ cations partially occupy the tetrahedral interstices formed by the bcc sublattice of I /C0 anions.

## 3.3. Structural discussion

Since the low-temperature monoclinic Na2B12H12 structure can be viewed roughly as a body-centered orthorhombic arrangement of anions, the transition to the high-temperature bcc polymorph can be envisioned as a martensitic transformation (see Fig. 6). We also note the Na2 11 B12D12 unit cell volumes for the hightemperature Pm 3 ̄ n polymorph at 547 K and the low-temperature monoclinic phase at 298 K are 519.0 Å 3 and 537.3 Å 3 , respectively, indicating that the high-temperature polymorph is slightly denser than the low-temperature phase. This is a trend also observed between the low-temperature and high-temperature phases of Cs2B12 X 12 [20].

This structural trend for stabilizing these ionic building blocks makes sense if one assumes that it is largely based on simple geometric packing criteria [27 -30] directed by the cation/anion radius ratio. This approach was previously useful for understanding the observed structural arrangements of the alkaline-earthmetal dodecahydrocloso -dodecaborates [31]. Assuming that the anions and cations are hard spheres, the most stable structure tends to be one in which the cation sphere is able to surround itself with the maximum number of anion spheres without the anion spheres touching one other. Accordingly, it can be shown that two-fold anion coordination around the cation is favored when the cation -anion radius ratio rc / ra is below 0.155, planar three-fold coordination for ratios between 0.155 and 0.225, and tetrahedral four-fold coordination for larger ratios between 0.225 and 0.414. To determine these ratios for the Na2B12H12 and Cs2B12 X 12 compounds, we estimated an effective radius r a in these structures for the quasi-spherical B12H12 2 /C0 and B12 X 12 2 /C0 anions. From room-temperature structural results [2,21], the average nearest-neighbor distances da -c between the centers of the anions and cations are E 4.18 Å (using only the nearest three anions), 5.79 Å, 6.03 Å, and 6.34 Å for Na2B12H12, Cs2B12Cl12, Cs2B12Br12, and Cs2B12I12, respectively. Moreover, reasonable extrapolations from alkali cation radii ( r c) data plotted for a variety of coordination numbers by Shannon [32] yield respective rc values of E 0.90 Å and 1.60 Å for Na þ (assuming a quasi-three-fold coordination, i.e. , ignoring the fourth more distant anion neighbor in the monoclinic structure 2 ) and Cs þ (in four-fold coordination). Assuming da /C0 c ¼ ra þ rc results in ra values of E 3.28 Å, 4.19 Å, 4.43 Å, and 4.74 Å for B12H12 2 /C0 , B12Cl12 2 /C0 , B12Br12 2 /C0 , and B12I12 2 /C0 , respectively. (N.B., the value for B12H12 2 /C0 is identical with that determined from the higher-symmetry Cs2B12H12 structure [33].) This yields respective rc / ra ratios of 0.27, 0.38, 0.36 and 0.34, which all lie within a fairly narrow range. Interestingly, they also all fall within the same 0.225 -0.414 range favoring tetrahedral four-fold coordination. Indeed, the room-temperature structures of all these compounds exhibit four-fold anion coordinations around the cations [2,21]. The hexagonal dodecahalocloso -dodecaborates exhibit additional non-planar three-fold coordinations, although one might also describe the tetrahedral coordinations in monoclinic Na2B12H12 as non-planar three-fold coordinations, since the fourth coordinating anion is somewhat more distant from the cation than the other three [2].

In short, since the B12H12 2 /C0 anion is smaller than the B12 X 12 2 /C0 anion and the Na þ cation is smaller than the Cs þ cation, the Na þ /B12H12 2 /C0 radius ratio is more or less comparable to the Cs þ /B12 X 12 2 /C0 radius ratio. Thus it is not unreasonable to think that Na2B12H12 and Cs2B12 X 12 might rearrange themselves in a somewhat similar fashion at higher temperatures in order to attain the most stable structure. Yet, it should be again noted that the high-temperature structures are not entirely identical, at least between Na2B12H12 and Cs2B12Cl12 where there is detailed structural information available [20]. It would appear that, despite the similar bcc arrangements of anions, the somewhat smaller radius ratio for the former compared to the latter is enough to cause an energy-lowering cation shift away from the center and more pronounced structural disordering of the Na þ cations in Na2B12H12 as compared to the Cs þ cations in Cs2B12Cl12. Analogous to the high-temperature Na2B12H12 bcc structure, the interstitial cavities between anions at the ( ¼ , 0, ½ ) 6 c special positions of the β -phase Cs2B12Cl12 structure are distorted tetrahedral sites (see Fig. 7). For the 10.52 Å lattice constant, these sites are about the right size to accommodate a 1.60 Å radius Cs þ cation, resulting in the most stabilizing Coulombic interaction. In contrast, for Na2B12H12, the lattice constant is E 8.06 Å, and the analogous tetrahedral cavity can ideally accommodate a cation with a radius of E 1.23 Å. Despite the relatively smaller lattice, the four-foldcoordinated Na þ cation radius of E 0.95 Å (extrapolated from the data of Shannon [32]) is still about 23% smaller than the ideal size to /uniFB01 ll the interstices at the ( ¼ , 0, ½ ) positions. This presumably leads to the energy-stabilizing off-center shifts to ( ¼ 7 δ , 0, ½ 7 ν ) suggested by the diffraction data, such as to the two-fold 12 g positions (where δ E 0.08 and ν E 0), placing each cation as close as possible to two of the four surrounding B12H12 2 /C0 anions, or to the four-fold 24 k positions (where δ E 0.10 and ν E 0.05), placing them as close as possible to any three of the four surrounding B12H12 2 /C0 anions (see Fig. 7). It should be again stressed that structural models placing the Na þ cations at the 6 c special positions resulted in much poorer model /uniFB01 ts ( e.g. , see Figs. S4 and S5).

The large isotope effect with respect to the transition temperature between the Pm 3 ̄ n and Im 3 ̄ m phases is somewhat unusual. We speculate that this may be a steric effect since the Na2B12H12 lattice is, in general, larger than that of Na2B12D12 at any given temperature. There may be a critical unit cell size required to allow for the additional migration of Na þ cations to the other positions in the lattice, which ultimately leads to the transformation to the highest-temperature phase. This is attainable at a lower temperature for Na2B12H12 than for Na2B12D12,which is consistent with the fact that the lattice constant for Na2B12H12 at 553 K is similar to that for Na2 11 B12D12 at 675 K ( E 8.1 Å). Since the deuterated sample actually contains E 13% H, an even higher transition temperature is expected for a fully deuterated sample.

The minor fcc Na2B12H(D)12 phase coexisting with the two high-temperature bcc structures possesses a lattice constant on the order of 10.4 Å. This represents a volume expansion over the monoclinic phase in line with the expansion behavior for Li2B12H12, but in contrast to the denser bcc Na2B12H12 polymorphs. As for the Li2B12H12 structure discussed below, it is probable that the anions of the fcc Na2B12H12 phase are orientationally disordered, with cations positionally disordered throughout the structure. Based on a 10.4 Å fcc lattice constant, the trigonal interstices can accommodate a cation with a radius less than E 0.97 Å (assuming an anion radius of 3.28 Å), which is slightly larger than the three-fold-coordinated Na þ Shannon radius of E 0.90 Å. Hence, although different types of sites within the fcc structure are available to the Na þ cations, some fraction of the cations probably occupy the similar-sized trigonal sites.

In contrast to Na2B12H12, no attempt was made to synthesize a 7 Li, 11 B, and D-enriched Li2B12H12 sample to perform analogous NPD measurements. The large Debye -Waller factors at high temperature, the extensive disorder, and the relative dif /uniFB01 culty of ' seeing ' 7 Li compared to 11 B ( i.e. , the coherent neutron scattering cross section for 11 B is about an order of magnitude larger than that for 7 Li) discouraged the pursuit of such measurements. We also did not attempt to extract a de /uniFB01 nitive fcc Li2B12H12 structure from our XRPD data. In contrast, Paskevicius et al. [9] attempted

to re /uniFB01 ne a structural model from their synchrotron XRPD data for β -Li2B12H12 using the Pa 3 ̄ symmetry of the low-temperature Li2B12H12 structure and superimposing a second B12H12 2 /C0 moiety with a different orientation to mimic orientational disorder. Assuming 50% occupancy for each B and H position, a better /uniFB01 t was achieved by also allowing the Li þ cations to disorder by migrating 75% of them from their low-temperature 8 c positions to 24 d positions with the same local near-trigonal anion coordination within the structure. Such a model, although speculative, does try to address the highly disordered nature of this high-temperature polymorph.

From our own XRPD data, the positions of the Bragg re /uniFB02 ections of the high-temperature Li2B12H12 polymorph at 598 K in Fig. 3 provide an fcc structure with a lattice constant of E 10.04 Å, which is a 2.6% expansion compared to the coexisting ' low-temperature ' phase at this temperature. (N.B., the ' low-temperature ' phase at 598 K had already expanded about 2.2% compared to that at room temperature.) Again, using geometric arguments with the apparent lattice constant of the high-temperature polymorph coupled with estimates of the B12H12 2 /C0 anion and Li þ cation radii, one can make predictions about the most stabilizing cation positions. Fig. 8 displays a schematic of the cubic low-temperature Pa 3 ̄ -symmetric phase [1] with its ordered fcc arrangement of B12H12 2 /C0 anions. The relatively small Li þ cations in 8 c sites reside very close to the planar trigonal sites formed by three anions. With an assumed B12H12 2 /C0 anion radius of 3.28 Å and a roomtemperature lattice constant of 9.5771 Å [1], the resulting trigonal interstice would accommodate a cation with a maximum radius of E 0.66 Å. This is in fair agreement with the estimated three-foldcoordinated Li þ cation radius of E 0.52 Å extrapolated from the data of Shannon [32]. (Conversely, assuming a maximum interstice radius of 0.52 Å requires a slightly larger anion radius of 3.42 Å.)

With the expanded lattice constant of the high-temperature fcc polymorph, the trigonal interstice radius is now E 0.83 Å (assuming an anion radius of 3.28 Å), which is E 60% larger than the Li þ cation radius. To maximize the stabilizing Coulombic interactions, it is preferable that the small Li þ cation shift toward two of the three surrounding anions. Ideally, if space were suf /uniFB01 cient, it would be situated directly between the two anions. This is somewhat in contrast to the structural model proposed by Paskevicius et al. [9] which disorders the Li þ cations only among additional trigonal interstices of the fcc anion lattice, precluding any migration to more stabilizing cation sites via off-center lateral shifts toward two anions. Although some type of Li þ cation disorder is warranted, one would not expect the smaller Li þ cation to solely inhabit the other overly enlarged trigonal interstices.

The sublattice of two-fold sites is shown schematically in Fig. 8. To maintain the Li2B12H12 stoichiometry, this sublattice would statistically be only one-third occupied and undergoing considerable dynamic disorder. As shown in Fig. S8, these cation sites form a cuboctahedron of 12 sites around each anion, yet with only four sites occupied on average. For a 10.04 Å lattice constant and an anion radius of 3.28 Å, the maximum cation radius that could be accommodated in this site is E 0.3 Å, as compared with an estimated twofold-coordinated Li þ cation radius of E 0.4 Å extrapolated from the data of Shannon [32]. At /uniFB01 rst glance, this suggests that the cation may be too large to reside directly between two anions, but small changes alone in the estimates of the effective ionic radii may be enough to justify Li þ incorporation at this site. Moreover, since this is a highly disordered phase, we have not considered the additional possibilities of anion lateral shifts, energy-reducing reorientations, and/or distortions to help accommodate and stabilize the crystallographically disordered Li þ cations. Also, there is no information available concerning the extent and effect of site-induced perturbations that can alter the assumed spherical ion shapes [34]. In short, the Li2B12H12 phase change observed in the XRPD data near 598 K, resulting in an abrupt expansion of the B12H12 2 /C0 anion sublattice without a major rearrangement, must be correlated with some discrete change in Li þ cation positions in order to attain a more stable structure. The change that seems to make the most sense from a cohesive-energy viewpoint is the one proposed above, where the Li þ cations shift their positions from three-fold trigonal sites toward two-fold linear sites. Whether they can sit directly between anions or visit an array of slightly off-axis positions (see Fig. S9) is still unclear. Nonetheless, such a structural transition is martensitic, as for Na2B12H12; although unlike Na2B12H12, it results in a relatively less dense polymorph. Again, whatever the structure, the XRPD data clearly indicate that it is not completely stable, and slowly disappears at temperatures above about 600 K by dehydrogenation.

At present, it is unclear exactly why the disordered fcc phase of Li2B12H12 is inherently more unstable than the disordered bcc phase of Na2B12H12 above 600 K. The relative stabilities most likely depend on a variety of factors, including the differences in anion/cation size ratio, structure, and activation energy barriers to decomposition. Once the H-de /uniFB01 cient decomposition phases can be identi /uniFB01 ed, density functional theory calculations may be useful for shedding more light on the origin of these differences in stability.

## 3.4. Dynamical studies

Given the disordered nature of the high-temperature structures of Li2B12H12 and Na2B12H12, NMR and neutron scattering measurements were performed to elucidate the effect of the phase

Fig. 8. (left) The low-temperature cubic (from Ref. [1]) and (right) proposed high-temperature cubic Li2B12H12 structures (with possible two-fold coordinated Li þ cation positions) viewed from the (100) direction. At left, the red, purple, and pink spheres denote the Li, B, and H atoms, respectively. At right, the small red and large purple spheres denote the possible Li þ cation positions and orientationally disordered B12H12 2 /C0 anions, respectively. (For interpretation of the references to color in this /uniFB01 gure caption, the reader is referred to the web version of this paper.)

Fig. 9. Temperature dependences of the proton spin -lattice relaxation rates for (a) Na2B12H12 (from Ref. [35]) and (b) Li2B12H12 measured at 23.8 MHz (black) and 14 MHz (gray, Na2B12H12 only). The drop in the proton spin -lattice relaxation rate at the phase transition points corresponds to a nearly two-orders-of-magnitude increase in the H jump rate. The lines connecting data points are guides to the eye.

transitions on the B12H12 2 /C0 dynamical motions. The results of recent NMR measurements of the proton spin -lattice relaxation rates R 1 for Na2B12H12 [35] at two resonance frequencies ω /2 π are shown in Fig. 9a. The general features of the observed behavior of R 1 below 520 K are typical of the relaxation mechanism due to nuclear dipole -dipole interaction modulated by thermally activated reorientational motion [36]. The proton relaxation rate exhibits the frequency-dependent peak at the temperature at which the reorientation jump rate τ /C0 1 becomes nearly equal to ω . In the limit of slow motion ( ωτ ⪢ 1), R 1 is proportional to ω /C0 2 τ /C0 1 , and in the limit of fast motion ( ωτ ⪡ 1), R 1 is proportional to τ and is frequency-independent. The sharp decrease in the proton spin -lattice relaxation rate observed near 520 K (Fig. 9a) can be attributed to the transformation from the monoclinic to the cubic phase of Na2B12H12. This decrease in R 1 corresponds to a nearly two-orders-of-magnitude increase in the reorientation jump rate τ /C0 1 because, at high-temperature the slope of the relaxation rate peak, R 1 is proportional to τ . As can be seen from Fig. 9a, the slope of the log R 1 vs. T /C0 1 plot for the high-temperature phase is considerably smaller than that for the low-temperature phase. Since this slope is determined by the activation energy, Ea , it was concluded [35] that the potential barrier for the reorientational motion in the cubic phase is lower than in the monoclinic phase. A low value of Ea is, in principle, consistent with the fast reorientational motion in the high-temperature phase.

The results of the proton spin -lattice relaxation rate measurements for Li2B12H12 at ω /2 π ¼ 23.8 MHz are shown in Fig. 9b. As in the case of Na2B12H12, the transition to the high-temperature phase of Li2B12H12 is accompanied by a sharp decrease in R 1. The relaxation rate measurements have been performed with increasing temperature, and the sharp drop in R 1 is observed between 592 K and 602 K. It should be noted that in this transition range, the recovery of nuclear magnetization deviates from a singleexponential behavior and can be well described by a sum of two exponents. Such a behavior suggests a coexistence of two phases in this range; the faster component corresponds to the lowtemperature phase, and the slower one corresponds to the hightemperature phase. The relative weight of the slower component changes from about 0.3 at 592 K to 0.9 at 602 K, and above 606 K only the slower component remains. However, for illustrative purposes, in the range (592 -602) K, the points in Fig. 9b represent single-exponential /uniFB01 ts to the experimental recovery curves; these points can be considered as the weighted averages of the two coexisting phases. Since for Li2B12H12, the drop in relaxation rate occurs before the characteristic R 1 peak is reached, it is dif /uniFB01 cult to derive the H jump rates from the R 1( T ) data for the lowtemperature phase. The activation energy for the reorientational motion estimated from the low-temperature slope of the log R 1 vs. T /C0 1 plot (Fig. 9b) is 1.4 eV. As in the case of Na2B12H12, the R 1 drop at the phase transition in Li2B12H12 corresponds to the sharp increase in the reorientation rate τ /C0 1 . Since the R 1( T ) peak is not reached in the low-temperature phase of Li2B12H12, the relative jump in τ /C0 1 at the phase transition should be greater than the relative jump in R 1. Thus, the change in τ /C0 1 for Li2B12H12 should exceed two orders of magnitude.

The evolution of the 1 H NMR spectrum for Li2B12H12 indicates the onset of a decomposition slightly above the transition point. The full width at half-maximum, Δ ν , of the 1 H NMR line in the range (510 -590) K is /C24 11 kHz, being nearly temperatureindependent. Such a plateau value of Δ ν is typical of the nuclear dipole -dipole interaction partially averaged by the fast reorientational motion with τ /C0 1 4 10 5 s /C0 1 ; this Δν value is not expected to change further if the motion is still localized [37]. Indeed, the overall width of the 1 H NMR spectrum for Li2B12H12 does not change through the phase transition, in spite of the dramatic change in τ /C0 1 . However, above the transition point, in addition to the line with Δ ν E 11 kHz, we have found a very narrow NMR line with Δ ν E 600 Hz. The intensity of this line is found to increase with increasing temperature. Moreover, this narrow line remains in the spectrum after cooling the sample to room temperature. Therefore, it is reasonable to ascribe the narrow line to some decomposition product, such as H2 gas or diborane. Note that the value of Δ ν E 600 Hz is consistent with the fast long-range diffusion of H-containing species in this product. In order to learn more about this product, we have performed a number of additional low-temperature (90 -300) K 1 H NMR measurements on the sealed Li2B12H12 sample which was previously heated up to 650 K. We have found that the narrow line with nearly unchanged width is observable down to 90 K. The spin -lattice relaxation rate for this narrow line can be measured separately, since the intrinsic 1 H spin -lattice relaxation for Li2B12H12 at low temperatures is extremely slow. The values of R 1 for the narrow line measured at ω /2 π ¼ 23.8 MHz are found to change from 493 s /C0 1 at 90 K to 355 s /C0 1 at 300 K. Such values of R 1 are typical of molecular hydrogen gas at pressures close to 1 bar [38]. The release of H2 upon an increase in temperature is consistent with the results of Paskevicius et al. [9].

Because of the irreversible changes in the proton NMR spectrum for Li2B12H12 after crossing the phase transition point, repeated NMR measurements on this compound require fresh samples. The results of the 11 B spin -lattice relaxation rate measurements on a fresh sample of Li2B12H12 are shown in Fig. S10. The observed drop in the 11 B relaxation rate at the phase transition is consistent with the sharp increase in the reorientation rate. It should be noted that, in contrast to the case of Li2B12H12, the NMR results for Na2B12H12 are found to be reversible in the studied temperature range.

Preliminary neutron scattering /uniFB01 xed-window scans (FWSs) at zero energy transfer for Li2 11 B12H12 and Na2 11 B12H12 in Fig. 10 corroborate the NMR results. For each sample, the elastic

Fig. 10. Elastic neutron scattering /uniFB01 xed-window scans for (a) Li2B12H12 and (b) Na2B12H12 collected during heating (red) followed by cooling (blue). The vertical lines in each case indicate the onset temperatures of the phase transitions observed in DSC upon heating (red) followed by cooling (blue). In (a), the /uniFB01 rst heating and cooling cycle is indicated by circles, the second cycle by triangles. Vertical error bars represent 7 1 1 s . (For interpretation of the references to color in this /uniFB01 gure caption, the reader is referred to the web version of this paper.)

scattering intensity, summed over all available momentum transfers as a function of temperature, was collected /uniFB01 rst upon heating slowly (1 K/min) from room temperature to above the phase transition followed by cooling at a similar rate back toward room temperature. A loss of elastic scattering intensity is observed when the hydrogenous B12H12 2 /C0 anions undergo reorientations on a timescale equal to or faster than that resolved by the instrument (10 8 s /C0 1 ) [39]. Upon heating, the elastic scattering intensity indeed drops as each sample transitions to its high-temperature phase(s), at roughly the temperatures observed in DSC. Also as observed in the DSC data, the transitions from the high-temperature to lowtemperature phases occur at lower temperatures than on heating, and more gradually.

For Li2 11 B12H12, the behavior upon cooling differs between the /uniFB01 rst and second heating events. The initial cooling shows an immediate increase in elastic scattering intensity, followed by a sudden drop that may be due to transient structural rearrangements of a short-range-ordered Li2B12H12 phase [9,19] coexisting with the more crystalline fcc phase. Again the elastic intensity begins to increase when the sample reaches 596 K, the temperature of the exothermic transition observed on DSC upon cooling. Oddly, after the second heating event, this atypical cooling behavior is no longer observed and the increase in elastic scattering intensity occurs upon cooling only when the sample reaches 596 K. Determining the origin of this peculiar /uniFB01 rst-cycle FWS behavior will require further investigation.

Aside from the minor effects due to temperature gradients across the sample, the hysteretic behavior for Na2 11 B12H12 suggests that the transformation back to the low-temperature monoclinic structure is somewhat ' sluggish ' ( i.e. , not instantaneous), similar to what has been observed previously for the high-temperature to low-temperature structural transformations of the Cs2B12 X 12 compounds [20]. Moreover, it should be noted that the slope change at E 522 K indicates some type of additional dynamical change, which coincides with the small secondary feature observed in DSC upon cooling. This may be related to the transformation from the more fully disordered Im 3 ̄ m to the partially disordered Pm 3 ̄ n structure, although we know from XRPD that cooling from 553 K and holding the sample at 533 K for an extended period ( E 1 h) already yields the partially disordered structure. Alternatively, it may indicate that the reorientational rates of the anions in the Pm 3 ̄ n structure below E 522 K are o 10 10 jumps/s and now within the instrumental time window for detection. More measurements are necessary to further understand these observations.

## 4. Conclusions

Both Li2B12H12 and Na2B12H12 were found by DSC, XRPD, and NPD to undergo transformations to high-temperature phases. Changes in 1 H spin -lattice relaxation rates in NMR measurements con /uniFB01 rm these transitions. For Li2B12H12, the high-temperature phase occurred near E 615 K upon heating at 1 K/min, with a two-step hysteretic transformation back to its low-temperature cubic structure beginning near E 596 K upon cooling. Although the structural details of this new polymorph could not be determined with certainty, diffraction measurements suggested that an fcc arrangement of B12H12 2 /C0 anions is maintained, although expanded and orientationally disordered, in agreement with a previous study [9]. The interstitial sites between pairs of nearestneighbor anions of the expanded anion sublattice are potentially large enough to accommodate the Li þ cations while maintaining one-third occupancy. For Na2B12H12, a monoclinic-to-cubic phase transition near E 529 K occurred upon heating at 1 K/min, forming three different phases, with a hysteretic transformation back to its low-temperature structure near E 483 K upon cooling. The /uniFB01 rst high-temperature structure was found to possess Pm 3 ̄ n symmetry, exhibiting a bcc arrangement of orientationally disordered B12H12 2 /C0 anions. The disordered Na þ cations are located, with reduced occupancies, at higher-multiplicity, off-center sites within the distorted tetrahedral sites of the anion sublattice. The second high-temperature structure ( Im 3 ̄ m ) existing at and above 553 K is the result of an disorder -disorder transition yielding more extensive disorder of the bcc anions (orientationally) and cations. There is a substantial isotope effect on the temperature of the transition between the two bcc phases, with the deuteration of the anion leading to greater than a 100 K increase in the transition temperature. Moreover, it appears that a third, albeit minor, hightemperature structure coexists with the other two phases. We propose that this structure may resemble an fcc, orientationally disordered anion lattice with Na þ cations populating a variety of sites including the planar three-fold sites (analogous to the Li þ cation coordinations in the low-temperature Li2B12H12 structure and the proposed high-temperature Li2B12H12 structure of Paskevicius et al. [9]). 1 H NMR and neutron scattering /uniFB01 xed-window scan measurements have revealed that for both Li2B12H12 and Na2B12H12, the transition to the high-temperature phases is accompanied by a sharp increase in the reorientational jump rates of the icosahedral B12H2 2 /C0 anions. The NMR results for Li2B12H12 are also consistent with the presence of H2 via partial decomposition at temperatures above the Li2B12H12 transition. The behavior of Na2B12H12, however, is found to be reversible.

We are investigating further the nature of the reorientational jump mechanisms associated with these motions with more detailed NMR and quasielastic neutron scattering (QENS) measurements. Previous NMR and QENS studies [35,40,41] have

already been shown to be useful for characterizing the rapid reorientational jumps of B12H12 2 /C0 anions in other dodecahydrocloso -dodecaborate compounds. Besides the presence of enhanced anionic reorientational mobility, the high fraction of Li þ and Na þ cation vacancies in these high-temperature polymorphs provide an environment for enhanced cationic mobility. Indeed, our very recent measurements [35] of the 23 Na NMR spectra and spin -lattice relaxation rates for Na2B12H12 indicate enhanced translational diffusion of Na þ cations ( 4 2 /C2 10 8 jumps/s) within the high-temperature polymorphs. We expect Li2B12H12 to exhibit similar behavior. Thus, we are currently exploring these materials and modi /uniFB01 ed versions for their potential promise as improved alternatives to the more traditional solid-state superionic electrolyte materials for batteries and other devices.

## Acknowledgments

This work was partially supported by the DOE EERE through Grant Nos. DE-EE0002978, DE-AI-01-05EE11104, and DE-AC0494AL85000 and by the Russian Foundation for Basic Research under Grant No. 12-03-00078, the U.S. Civilian Research &amp; Development Foundation (CRDF Global) under Award No. RUP1-7076EK-12 and the National Science Foundation under Cooperative Agreement No. OISE-9531011. This work utilized facilities supported in part by the National Science Foundation under Agreement DMR-0944772.

## Appendix B. Supporting information

Supplementary data associated with this article contains NVS, DSC and TGA data, structural parameters and schematics, observed and simulated XRPD patterns, a summary of observed transition temperatures, and 11 B spin lattice relaxation rate data. These can be found in the online version at http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jssc. 2014.01.006.

## References

- [1] J.-H. Her, M. Yousufuddin, W. Zhou, S.S. Jalisatgi, J.G. Kulleck, J.A. Zan, S.-J. Hwang, R.C. Bowman , T.J. Udovic, Inorg. Chem. 47 (2008) 9757.
- [2] J.-H. Her, W. Zhou, V. Stavila, C.M. Brown, T.J. Udovic, J. Phys. Chem. C 113 (2009) 11187.
- [3] S.-I. Orimo, Y. Nakamori, N. Ohba, K. Miwa, M. Aoki, S.-I. Towata, A. Züttel, Appl. Phys. Lett. 89 (2006) 021920.
- [4] N. Ohba, K. Miwa, M. Aoki, T. Noritake, S.-I. Towata, Y. Nakamori, S.-I. Orimo, A. Züttel, Phys. Rev. B 74 (2006) 075110.
- [5] S.-J. Hwang, R.C. Bowman, J.W. Reiter, J. Rijssenbeek, G.L. Soloveichik, J.-C. Zhao, H. Kabbour, C.C. Ahn, J. Phys. Chem. C 112 (2008) 3164.
- [6] R. Caputo, S. Garroni, D. Olid, F. Teixidor, S. Suriñach, M.D. Baró, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 12 (2010) 15093.
- [7] Y. Yan, H.-W. Li, H. Maekawa, K. Miwa, S.-I. Towata, S.-I. Orimo, J. Phys. Chem. C 115 (2011) 19419.
- [8] V. Stavila, J.-H. Her, W. Zhou, S.-J. Hwang, C. Kim, L.A. M. Ottley, T.J. Udovic, J. Solid State Chem. 183 (2010) 1133.
- [9] M. Paskevicius, M.P. Pitt, D.H. Brown, D.A. Sheppard, S. Chumphongphan, C.E. Buckley, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 15 (2013) 15825.
- [10] I. Tiritiris, T. Schleid, Z. Anorg. Allg. Chem. 629 (2003) 1390.
- [11] K.A. Solntsev, N.T. Kuznetsov, V.I. Ponomarev, Inorg. Mater. 12 (1976) 874.
- [12] The mention of all commercial suppliers in this paper is for clarity. This does not imply the recommendation or endorsement of these suppliers by NIST.
- [13] J.K. Stalick, E. Prince, A. Santoro, I.G. Schroder, J.J. Rush, Neutron scattering in materials science, in: D.A. Neumann, T.P. Russell, B.J. Wuensch (Eds.), Materials Research Society Symposium Proceedings, vol. II, Materials Research Society, Pittsburgh, PA, 1995, p. 101 (No. 376).
- [14] T.J. Udovic, C.M. Brown, J.B. Leão, P.C. Brand, R.D. Jiggetts, R. Zeitoun, T.A. Pierce, I. Peral, J.R. D. Copley, Q. Huang, D.A. Neumann, R.J. Fields, Nucl. Instrum. Methods A 588 (2008) 406.
- [15] A. Meyer, R.M. Dimeo, P.M. Gehring, D.A. Neumann, Rev. Sci. Instrum. 74 (2003) 2759.
- [16] H.M. Rietveld, J. Appl. Crystallogr. 2 (1969) 65.
- [17] A.A. Coelho, TOPAS-Commercial, Version 4.2 (Computer Software), Brisbane, Coelho Software, 2007.
- [18] Z. Huang, J. Gallucci, X. Chen, T. Yigedu, H.K. Lingam, S.G. Shore, J.-C. Zhao, J. Mater. Chem. 20 (2010) 2743.
- [19] M.P. Pitt, M. Paskevicius, D.H. Brown, D.A. Sheppard, C.E. Buckley, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 135 (2013) 6930.
- [20] I. Tiritiris, Dissertation, Univ. Stuttgart, 2003.
- [21] I. Tiritiris, T. Schleid, Z. Anorg. Allg. Chem. 630 (2004) 1555.
- [22] S.-J. Hwang, R.C. Bowman , C. Kim, J.A. Zan, J.W. Reiter, J. Anal. Sci. Technol. 2 (2011) A159.
- [23] N. Verdal, H. Wu, T.J. Udovic, V. Stavila, W. Zhou, J.J. Rush, J. Solid State Chem. 184 (2011) 3110.
- [24] I. Tiritiris, T. Schleid, Z. Anorg. Allg. Chem. 628 (2002) 2212.
- [25] G. Hägg, N. Schönberg, Acta Crystallogr. 7 (1954) 351.
- [26] V.M. Nield, D.A. Keen, W. Hayes, R.L. McGreevy, Solid State Ion. 66 (1993) 247.
- [27] G.F. Hüttig, Z. Anorg. Chem. 113 (1920) 24.
- [28] V. Goldschmidt, Trans. Faraday Soc. 25 (1929) 253.
- [29] L. Pauling, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 51 (1929) 1010.
- [30] L.C. Nathan, J. Chem. Educ. 62 (1985) 215.
- [31] J.-H. Her, H. Wu, N. Verdal, W. Zhou, V. Stavila, T.J. Udovic, J. Alloys Compds. 514 (2012) 71.
- [32] R.D. Shannon, Acta Crystallogr. A 32 (1976) 751.
- [33] I. Tiritiris, T. Schleid, K. Müller, W. Preetz, Z. Anorg. Allg. Chem. 626 (2000) 323.
- [34] M. Birkholz, R. Rudert, Phys. Status Solidi (b) 245 (2008) 1858.
- [35] A.V. Skripov, O.A. Babanova, A.V. Soloninin, V. Stavila, N. Verdal, T.J. Udovic, J.J. Rush, J. Phys. Chem. C 117 (2013) 259261.
- [36] A. Abragam, The Principles of Nuclear Magnetism, Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1961.
- [37] O.A. Babanova, A.V. Soloninin, A.P. Stepanov, A.V. Skripov, Y. Filinchuk, J. Phys. Chem. C 114 (2010) 3712.
- [38] L.H. Rayhel, R.L. Corey, D.T. Shane, D.F. Cowgill, M.S. Conradi, J. Phys. Chem. C 115 (2011) 4966.
- [39] T.J. Udovic, N. Verdal, J.J. Rush, D.J. De Vries, M.R. Hartman, J.J. Vajo, A.F. Gross, A.V. Skripov, J. Alloys Compds. 580 (2013) S47 -S50.
- [40] I. Tiritiris, T. Schleid, K. Muller, Appl. Magn. Reson. 32 (2007) 459.
- [41] N. Verdal, T.J. Udovic, J.J. Rush, R. Cappelletti, W. Zhou, J. Phys. Chem. A 115 (2011) 2933.