## nature materials

## ArticGLYPH&lt;31&gt;e

https://doi.org/10.1038/s41563-024-02064-y

## Revitalizing interphase in all-solid-state Li metal batteries by electrophile reduction

Received: 20 September 2023

Accepted: 28 October 2024

Published online: 20 January 2025

Check for updates

Weiran Zhang 1,2 , Zeyi Wang 2 , Hongli Wan 2 , Ai-Min Li 2 , Yijie Liu 2 , Sz-Chian Liou 3 , Kai Zhang 4 , Yuxun Ren 2 , Chamithri Jayawardana 5 , Brett L. Lucht 5  &amp; Chunsheng Wang 1,2

All-solid-state lithium metal batteries promise high levels of safety and energy density, but their practical realization is limited by low Li reversibility, limited cell loading and demand for high-temperature and high-pressure operation, stemming from solid-state electrolyte (SSE) low-voltage reduction and high-voltage decomposition, and from lithium dendrite growth. Here we concurrently address these challenges by reporting that a family of reductive electrophiles gain electrons and cations from metal-nucleophile materials (here a Li sulfide SSE) upon contact to undergo electrochemical reduction and form interphase layers (named solid reductive-electrophile interphase) on material surfaces. The solid reductive-electrophile interphase is electron blocking and lithiophobic, prevents SSE reduction, suppresses Li dendrites and supports high-voltage cathodes. Consequently, a reductive-electrophile-treated SSE exhibits high critical capacity and Li reversibility at the anode, and enables Li(1% Mg)/SSE/ LiNi 0.8 Co0.15 Al 0.05 O2 all-solid-state lithium metal batteries to achieve a high coulombic efficiency (&gt;99.9%), long cycle life (~10,000 h) and high loading (&gt;7 mAh cm -2 ) at 30 °C and 2.5 MPa. This concept also extends to cathodes of other materials (for example, metal oxides), boosting the high-nickel cathode's cycle life and expanding the operational voltage up to 4.5 V. Such solid reductive-electrophile interphase tailoring of material surfaces holds promise to accelerate all-solid-state lithium metal b  at  te  ry c  om  mercialization and offer solutions for a wide range of materials.

All-solid-state Li metal batteries (ASSLMBs) offer high levels of energy density and safety in transportation electrification. However, no SSE has satisfied all the requirements for these applications. Materials like LiPON have wide electrochemical windows but suffer from low ionic conductivity 1 . Sulfide electrolytes have high ionic conductivity and suitable mechanical properties but are limited by narrow stability windows (1.08 to 2.24 V) 2 , leading them to form a solid electrolyte interphase (SEI) on the Li anode and a cathode electrolyte interphase on the cathode. Unfortunately, their SEI cannot protect them from further reduction and Li dendrite growth 3,4 , reducing Li reversibility 3-7 and critical current density (CCD; Fig. 1a). Meantime, their cathode electrolyte interphase cannot protect the SSE from oxidation 8 , leading to low compatibility with 4 V cathode LiNi 1x -y Co x Mn y O2 (ref. 9). Moreover, the limited formula options of inorganic SSE materials constrain the ability to modify the SEI and cathode electrolyte interphase compositions. Fluorine doping has introduced lithiophobic 3,4,10 and

1 Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Maryland, College Park, MD, USA. 2 Department of Chemical and Biomolecular

3

Engineering, University of Maryland, College Park, MD, USA.

MD, USA.  4

Institute for Research in Electronics &amp; Applied Physics, University of Maryland, College Park,

5

Department of Chemistry, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.

e-mail: cswang@umd.edu

Department of Chemistry, University of Rhode Island, Kingston, RI, USA.

Fig. 1 | Schematic of the 'electrochemical electrophile reduction' strategy. a , In the Li || SSE || NCA solid-state cells, the lithiophilic SEI formed by sulfide SSE (e.g. LPSC) cannot prevent lithium dendrite growth, and the LPSC is not compatible with the 4 V cathode. b , Li || SSE || NCA solid-state cells using reductive-electrophile-treated LPSC with thin, dense LiF-Li x P y O z F i SREI layers on LPSC particles. The Li dendrite is suppressed, and a high operating voltage is achieved. c , Schematic of the electrochemical reduction of the electrophile, where the reductive electrophiles gain electron and Li + from LPSC SSE or cathode powders upon contact with them, thus being electrochemically reduced

anti-oxidative LiF (ref. 11) in the SEI and cathode electrolyte interphase to stabilize the anode and cathode, but also substantially reduce the ionic conductivity of SSE 12 . As a result, ASSLMBs have to work with an elevated temperature and/or high stacking pressure to improve the compatibility and mitigate Li dendrite growth 13 .

Recent breakthroughs involve using artificial lithiophobic interlayers between the SSE and Li electrode (interlayer@Li) to suppress Li dendrites and prevent the SSE from reduction. However, materials like tungsten 14 suffer from high electronic conductivity, leading to SSE reduction and thus limiting their performance (CCD of 1 mA cm -2 at 60 °C). A state-of-the-art Ag-C interlayer strikes a balance between lithiophobicity and electronic conductivity, performing well when combined with a warm isostatic pressing and operated at 60 °C and 2 MPa (ref. 15). However, these interlayers are micro-level thick and non-native to the SSE 4,15-22 , and many solid-state batteries require a high temperature (&gt;55 °C) and/or high stack pressure (&gt;50 MPa) to reduce interface resistance and enhance contact 9,15,23,24 , which is not desirable for industry applications 13 . Furthermore, the interlayer@Li cannot inhibit Li deposition

on the surface of these materials. r.t., room temperature. d , The reduction potential of DPF, TFAA, fluorinated solvents (FEC, fluoroethylene carbonate; TFPC, trifluoropropylene carbonate; MTFP, methyl 3,3,3-trifluoropropanoate), carbonate solvents (VC, vinylene carbonate; EC, ethylene carbonate; DEC, diethyl carbonate; DMC, dimethyl carbonate; EMC, ethyl methyl carbonate) and ether solvents (THF, tetrahydrofuran; DME, dimethoxyethane), in comparison with the oxidation potential ( V oxi ) of LPSC and NCA. e , Schematic illustration of the advancement of the SREI-sulfide SSE over traditional SSE.

and growth within the bulk SSE 25 . Therefore, achieving high-loading and long-life ASSLMBs at room temperature and a practical pressure is still far from reality 9,26 .

Constructing a lithiophobic and electron-blocking layer directly on SSE particles could concurrently suppress the Li dendrite growth and prevent the SSE from reduction/oxidation decomposition (Fig. 1b). However, conventional chemical coatings yield thermodynamic products that are crystalline, non-uniform and thick, reducing the protection efficacy and increasing resistance. Here we report that a family of reductive electrophiles (REs; for example, acid anhydride and acid halide) could gain electrons and Li + from a Li-nucleophile material upon contact to enable RE reduction, to form a thin protective layer (Fig. 1c), which we named the solid RE interphase (SREI). This SREI allows us to establish interphase layers on most battery materials because most SSEs and electrodes are Li-nucleophile materials (Li sulfide, Li oxide, Li halide). For effective electrochemical reduction of REs and to form a lithiophobic and electron-blocking SREI layer on SSE particles (SREI@SSEs), REs must fulfil three criteria:

First, they are strong electrophiles that allow pre-organization through interaction with nucleophilic sites and gain electrons from Li-nucleophile materials.

Second, they possess a higher reduction potential than the oxidation potential of the Li-nucleophile (Fig. 1d), allowing further electrochemical reduction to form the SREI.

Third, they are fluorinated reagents with less carbon content, to form a lithiophobic inorganic-rich composition while lowering the lithiophilic organic content (especially for protecting the SSE in an ASSLMB).

In general, REs form intimate nucleophile-electrophile pairs on the face of the SSEs upon contact. The pre-organized REs facilitate electrochemical reduction and tend to form a dense and amorphous structure by gaining the cation (Li + ) and electron ( e -) from the SSEs due to their proximity (Fig. 1c). The formation of SREI layer is controlled by electrons, with the interphase layer transitioning into an electron insulating one upon reaching a specific thickness, leading to the uniform formation of a dense and thin SREI layer. This self-limiting electrochemical process resembles SEI formation in batteries, but it occurs through direct interaction between RE solutions and materials without applying electric fields and advanced machinery. It surpasses the SEI and traditional coating methods, offering greater flexibility and broader applicability in interphase layer design.

Among REs, we synthesize an all-inorganic diphosphoryl fluoride (DPF; Supplementary Fig. 1) for ASSLMBs. DPF is liquid at room temperature with a very high reduction potential of 3.15 V, substantially higher than that of typical battery solvents (&lt;1.5 V; Fig. 1d). When in contact with a Li sulfide SSE (Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 , LPSC) particles, DPF is electrochemically reduced on the LPSC surface to form lithiophobic and electron-blocking LiF-Li x P y O z F i SREI@SSEs. Coupled with a Li(1% Mg) anode of high Li diffusivity (referred to as a Li anode for simplicity), the DPF-treated LPSC enables a high Li reversibility at the anode (coulombic efficiency (CE) of 99.7%) and a CCD &gt; 3.4 mA cm -2 /3.4 mAh cm -2 . At a high loading of 3.5 mAh cm -2 to 7.1 mAh cm -2 , the Li || LiNi 0.8 Co0.15 Al 0.05 O2 full cell exhibits stable cycling for over 600 cycles with a high full-cell CE of &gt;99.9% at C-rate of 0.1 C. Due to the low interface resistance, SREI@ SSEs also enable a full-cell high rate performance (2 C = 2.6 mA cm -2 ) for over 4,500 cycles, retaining 90% capacity at 30 °C and low stack pressure (2.5 MPa). To demonstrate its broad applicability, DPF also establishes SREI layer on the metal oxide cathode, high-nickel LiNi 0.8 Co0.15 Al 0.05 O2/LiNi 0.8Mn0.1Co0.1O2 (NCA/NMC), further enhancing the ASSLMB operating voltage (4.5 V) and cycle life. The SREI layer greatly improves the sulfide SSE to satisfy the requirements for ASSLMBs 27,28 (Fig. 1e, based on Supplementary Table 1). This advancement could be extended to other SSEs or electrodes, such as Li sulfide, Li oxide, Li halide and Li-Si, as well as other metal-based (Na or K) materials, which will trigger a wave of investigation on batteries and beyond.

## Understanding the electrophile reduction

To understand the reduction process of the electrophile to form the SREI and the tailoring of the SREI properties, we compared the traditional chemical coating with the SREI; we used tetrabutylammonium fluoride (TBAF) as an agent for the chemical coating (Fig. 2a), which involves an ionic reaction in which Li + diffuses from the solid LPSC to the solution and forms ionic bonds with F -to form a LiF coating. We then compared the SREI formed by different reductive electrophiles, including organic electrophile trifluoroacetic anhydride (TFAA), to that formed by the inorganic electrophile DPF. As an acid anhydride, TFAA (Fig. 2b, left) is a strong organic electrophile and has a higher reduction potential (2.84 V versus Li/Li + ; Supplementary Fig. 2a) than the potential of the LPSC electrolyte (2.12 V; Supplementary Fig. 3) or NCA/NMC cathode (~2.7 V). When TFAA comes in contact with LPSC or NCA/NMC, TFAA will form intimate pairs with the material (with the nucleophilic S in LPSC or the O in NCA/NMC) and accept e -and Li + from them, thereby being electrochemically reduced to form an organic-inorganic SREI on the surface of these materials. The CF 3 group of TFAA could be replaced with F to produce an acid halide with higher electrophilicity (Fig. 2b, middle). The O=C-F in the acid halide can more easily donate F than the O=C-CF 3 in TFAA, which is similar to the O=S-F group in LiFSI salt, and is thus able to form more LiF in the interphase during reduction. Furthermore, to eliminate the organic components in the SREI, we replaced the carbon in the acid halide with phosphorus and introduced more F in the molecule to finally arrive at the inorganic acid fluoride, DPF (Fig. 2b, right), which has an increased reduction potential of 3.15 V versus Li/Li + (Supplementary Fig. 2b). This allows it to be electrochemically reduced on the LPSC or NCA/NMC surface to form a LiF-rich interphase without organic components.

Both the SREI layer and coating on the LPSC species were formed by hand-milling a reactant solution with LPSC powder to let them gain contact and then drying to get TFAA-LPSC, DPF-LPSC and TBAF-LPSC powders. Since the electrochemical reduction of electrophiles is self-limited by forming electron-blocking interphases, the TFAA SREI and DPF SREI (~20-30 nm) are much thinner than the TBAF coating (&gt;100 nm; Fig. 2c-e). The SREI layer represents an exponential thickness reduction compared to documented artificial interlayer@Li species constructed by various fabrication methods (Fig. 2f). The SREI is much less crystallized than the LiF coating formed by the ionic reaction (Supplementary Fig. 4), as indicated by the featureless amorphous layers with diffuse ring patterns in the fast Fourier transform patterns, in contrast to the Bragg diffraction spots of the LiF coating. Meantime, the LiF in the amorphous SREI@SSEs was confirmed by electron energy loss spectroscopy (Supplementary Figs. 5-7 and Supplementary Note 1) 29,30 , and the DPF SREI was more enriched with LiF than the TFAA SREI, in agreement with our electrophile design. The element mapping (Supplementary Figs. 8 and 9) also shows that the F and O signals are enriched out of the Cl and S signals, indicating that the DPF SREI has a thin width and consists of F-based and O-based compositions. Such an inorganic-rich interphase with an amorphous structure has been reported to facilitate Li transport 31 , featuring a smaller thickness and higher interface energy 32 than a porous and crystalline coating 33 , thereby exhibiting enhanced stability with lithium metal 32,34 .

The reaction mechanisms for SREI formation were supported by ab initio molecular dynamics (AIMD) simulations (details of modelling in Supplementary Fig. 10). During the reaction process of LPSC with TFAA or DPF, the net charge of the LPSC was continuously increasing (Fig. 2g), suggesting that the LPSC was losing electrons while the electrophiles were obtaining electrons to be reduced. By contrast, no net charge changes of the LPSC were observed during the reaction with TBAF, confirming the 'ionic reaction' nature. This is also observed in the average charges of the Li, P, S and Cl atoms in LPSC, where the average charges of these four atoms in LPSC remain unchanged during the reaction with TBAF, while nucleophile S acts as an electron donor during the reaction with electrophiles (Supplementary Fig. 11). As a result, the formation of coating and SREI layer exhibit a distinct reaction pathway. The LPSC/TBAF reaction involves only an increase in Li-F bond formation (Supplementary Fig. 12a), originating from the ionic bonding between Li + and F -. By sharp contrast, the LPSC/TFAA and LPSC/DPF reactions involve changes in the coordination numbers of chemical bonds, indicating the breaking of Li-S, C-F or P-F and C-O or P-O bonds (the reduction of TFAA and DPF) and the formation of Li-F and Li-O bonds (Supplementary Figs. 12b,c and 13). This distinction between the 'ionic reaction' and 'electrophile electrochemical reduction' is also experimentally observed, where TFAA and DPF are stable with Li + (2 M lithium bis(trifluoromethanesulfonyl)imide (LiFSI)/ dimethoxyethan (DME) solution; Fig. 2h) in the absence of electrons, while the TBAF swiftly reacts with Li + , forming a suspension containing crystalline LiF.

The different reaction mechanisms explained the structural difference between SREI and the traditional coating. In the electrochemical reduction of electrophiles, they first interact with nucleophilic site

Fig. 2 | The electrophile design and reaction mechanism of electrophile reduction. a , Schematic of the ionic reaction to chemically coat discontinuous crystalline LiF, by TBAF. b , Schematic of the electrochemical reduction of electrophiles to form a dense SREI layer, using an organic acid anhydride (TFAA) and inorganic acid halide (DPF). c -e , Transmission electron microscopy images of particles with coating or SREI on TBAF LPSC ( c ), TFAA LPSC ( d ) and DPF LPSC ( e ) particles. f , The thickness of the native SREI layer compared with the

widely reported artificial interlayer (no. 1 (ref. 4), no. 2 (ref. 16), no. 3 (ref. 17), no. 4 (ref. 18), no. 5 (ref. 15), no. 6 (ref. 22), no. 7 (ref. 19), no 8. (ref. 20), no. 9 (ref. 21)). g , The net charge evolution of the LPSC during the reaction process of LPSC with TFAA, DPF and TBAF. h , The different properties of TFAA, DPF and TBAF with Li + are reflected by the response of 2 M LiFSI DME solution after adding them. i -k , Quantified atomic composition ratios of treated LPSC pellets at different sputtering time (0 s, 10 s, 45 s, 100 s, 300 s and 900 s).

S, forming intimate nucleophile-electrophile pairs on the surface, and then further reduce to form the SREI by gaining e -and Li + . This kinetics-controlled reaction process forms amorphous phases 35,36 . AIMD simulations (Supplementary Fig. 14) show that the Li and O atoms form coordinated bridges among carbon or phosphorus atoms, creating 'crosslinked' bonds like -Li-O-, -C-O-, -C=O, -C-C- and -Li-F in the TFAA SREI (Li x C y O z F i ), and -Li-O-, -P-O-, -P=O and -Li-F bonds in the DPF SREI (Li x P y O z F i ). This promotes the amorphization of the interphase, similar to amorphous LiPON materials 37 . By contrast, in the ionic reaction of TBAF with LPSC, Li + diffuses from LPSC to the solution, where it interacts with F -to form LiF. This reaction is under thermodynamic control, yielding more thermodynamically stable products 35,36 , so the seeds of LiF tend to crystalize to form crystalline coatings. AIMD also indicates that the reaction product is sparsely distributed with discontinuous Li-F and F-Li-F. Meantime, the atom numbers near the SSE surface are lower in the TBAF coating than in the TFAA SREI and DPF SREI (Supplementary Fig. 15), suggesting the amorphous structure contributes to dense interphases.

The proposed composition of the SREI on the LPSC particles' surface was then examined via X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) with Ar + sputtering depth profiling on the pressed SSE pellets (Fig. 2i-k and Supplementary Figs. 16-19). With increasing sputtering time, they exhibit a sharp decrease in C, O and F elements but a sharp increase in S and Cl elements, indicating that the coating or SREI layers are covered on the SSE. To enhance Li dendrite suppression, a lower organic content is more desirable due to the lithiophilicity of organic components. The TBAF coating has the highest organic ratio (Fig. 2i) due to the large ratio of organic components of TBAF. The C element of TFAA also contributes to the organic species in the SREI (Fig. 2j). By contrast, due to the inorganic nature of DPF, much less organic product is observed in the DPF LPSC (Fig. 2k). The carbon on the surface may come from unavoidable carbon impurities during the XPS test. Meantime, the DPF SREI also has the highest level of O-based and F-based components among the inorganic species. This high amount of O and F elements in the DPF interphase, seen in the XPS analysis, is also ig good agreement with the AIMD simulation (Supplementary Fig. 20), indicating the superior ability of DPF to form an F-rich and O-rich interphase.

The P, O, S and F spectra (Supplementary Figs. 16-19) were analysed to understand the specific compositions in the interphase 38,39 . The TFAA SREI mainly contains LiF, Li 2 O, C-O, C=O, Li-O-C and C-F, whereas the DPF SREI is mainly composed of LiF, Li 2 O, P-O-P, O=P-O -, Li + -O-P and P-F. These functional groups, as supported by modelling results, form large molecular Li x C y O z F i or Li x P y O z F i , resulting in more amorphous and homogeneous interphases. Since F-based components are crucial for stabilizing the Li anode, F spectra were compared. The TBAF coating primarily contains LiF. The TFAA SREI contains both LiF and CF x through -CF3 reduction, but CF x can lead to SSE reduction and Li dendrite growth when it comes in contact with Li to form electronically conducting carbon. By contrast, the DPF SREI consists of LiF and P-F, which, as observed in LiPF 6 -based or LiPO 2 F2 -based liquid electrolytes 40 , promote the formation of a robust and lithiophobic SEI with lithium, with minimal undesirable Li 3 P detected 41 .

In summary, TBAF chemically coats crystalline LiF via ionic reactions without charge transfer. By contrast, strong reductive electrophiles like TFAA or DPF form intimate nucleophile-electrophile pairs with LPSC, gaining electrons from LPSC and undergoing electrochemical reduction (reaction equation in Supplementary Fig. 21) to form thin and dense SREIs. Among these, the LiF-Li x P y O z F i SREI, which lacks organic components, promises a largely improved stability on both the Li anode, SSE bulk and high-voltage cathode.

## Properties of electrophile-treated SSE

The in situ-formed thin and dense SREIs exhibit lower ionic resistance than chemical coatings. Thus the electrophile treating only slightly decreases ionic conductivity from 6.42 × 10 -3 S cm -1 for bare LPSC to

3.98 × 10 -3 S cm -1 for TFAA LPSC, and to 3.65 × 10 -3 S cm -1 for DPF LPSC (Supplementary Fig. 22), while the conductivity of TBAF LPSC drops substantially to 1.70 × 10 -3 S cm -1 due to its crystalline and thick coating. Meantime, the self-limiting property of the electrochemical reduction makes the ionic conductivity of the electrophile-treated LPSC much less sensitive to the amount of reacting agent, compared to that of the chemical coating method (Supplementary Fig. 23).

An effective coating could passivate LPSC particles and prevent continuous reactions, but the porous and crystalline TBAF coating allows continuous reacting and etching on the LPSC particles (similar to HF etching on glass), leading to surface fissures and a distinct inner and outer morphology in the cross-section of the TBAF LPSC particles (Supplementary Figs. 24a and 25a). By contrast, TFAA LPSC particles and DPF LPSC particles exhibit an intact morphology both on the surface (Supplementary Fig. 24b,c) and in cross-sections (Supplementary Fig. 25b,c). This is also confirmed by X-ray powder diffraction of TFAA LPSC and DPF LPSC, where the main phase of the LPSC remains unchanged after the reaction with the electrophiles, with no impurity peaks and no noticeable Li-deficient phases observed (Supplementary Fig. 26), while impurity peak LiF was observed in the X-ray powder diffraction of TBAF LPSC. With no bulk changes, the electron-blocking DPF SREI on the SSE surface largely reduces the electric conductivity of the DPF-LPSC SSE (5.19 × 10 -10 S cm -1 ), which is nine times lower than that of a bare LPSC SSE (4.59 × 10 -9 S cm -1 ; Supplementary Fig. 27), effectively inhibiting SSE reduction and Li nucleation inside the SSE bulk.

After cold-pressing the treated powder into a SSE pellet, surface analysis of the pellet under low (30 MPa) and high (360 MPa) pressures using XPS imaging confirmed that the SREI remained intact during cell assembly. Both high-pressure and low-pressure processed pellets exhibit similar element ratios (Supplementary Fig. 28), and XPS imaging revealed that the surface remained fully covered by the SREI without obvious exposure of the LPSC after compression (Supplementary Figs. 29-31). These results demonstrate that the SREI is robust and remains stable during cell assembly (more details in Supplementary Note 2 and Supplementary Table 2).

## Compatibility of the SREI SSE with the Li anode

The lithiophobicity of the TBAF coating, TFAA SREI and DPF SREI was evaluated by testing their contact angle with molten lithium (Supplementary Fig. 32), which was 132° (TBAF LPSC), 148° (TFAA LPSC) and 153° (DPF LPSC). This highlights the pronounced lithiophobicity of a dense SREI over a traditional porous coating and the higher lithiophobicity of inorganic components over organic components. The high electron-blocking ability and high lithiophobicity of the DPF SREI substantially reduce SSE reduction and suppress the Li dendrites, as indicated by the high CCD and cycling stability in Li || Li cells. To avoid the Li diffusivity being a limiting factor on the anode, we use 1% of Mg in the Li (Li 0.99 Mg0.01 ) to enhance the Li diffusivity and suppress void formation 22,42,43 ; this species exhibits a CCD of &gt;0.9 mA cm -2 with bare LPSC (Fig. 3a), agreeing with the reported value 44 . Following the tendency of lithiophobicity, the TBAF coating on LPSC particles enhances the CCD of the TBAF LPSC to 1.4 mA cm -2 with a much larger overpotential (Fig. 3a), while the strong lithiophobic SREI increased the CCD to a very high value of &gt;2.3 mA cm -2 /2.3 mAh cm -2 for TFAA LPSC (Fig. 3b) and &gt;3.4 mA cm -2 /3.4 mAh cm -2 for the all-inorganic DPF LPSC (Fig. 3c). The cycling stability was also evaluated at a constant current for 1 h charge-discharge cycles. The cells using the TBAF LPSC cycled for less than 100 h at 1 mA cm -2 (Supplementary Fig. 33a), while the cells using the TFAA LPSC maintained stable cycling for over 800 h at 1 mA cm -2 /1 mAh cm -2 (Supplementary Fig. 33b). The all-inorganic LiF-rich DPF SREI can further allow the DPF LPSC to deliver stable cycling at 1.6 mA cm -2 for over 1,200 h (Fig. 3d). The DPF LPSC's higher stability over TFAA LPSC is also confirmed by the less interface resistance increasing, as seen in electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (Supplementary Fig. 34). Further increasing the current to 3 mA cm -2 ,

Fig. 3 | Stability of SREI LPSC on the Li anode. a -c , Voltage profiles of the Li || Li cell under step-increased current densities for 1 h/1 h of Li plating/stripping time with TBAF LPSC ( a ), TFAA LPSC ( b ) and DPF LPSC ( c ) electrolytes. d , The cycling profile for Li || DPF LPSC || Li at a current density of 1.6 mA cm -2 with 1 h/1 h plating/stripping time.

e , Critical capacity tested in Li || DPF LPSC || Li symmetric cell with continuous Li plating at a constant current of 0.45 mA cm -2 . f , The lithium reversibility test of DPF LPSC and pristine LPSC at a current density of 0.3 mA cm -2 and capacity of 0.3 mAh cm -2 (first 900 cycles) and 0.6 mAh cm -2 (after 900 cycles). All insets show zoomed-in views.

Cycle number

Fig. 4 | Electrochemical performance of DPF LPSC in all-solid-state lithium metal cell. a , Rate performance of NCA || DPF LPSC || Li with 1 C = 1.3 mA cm -2 at 2.7-4.2V cut-off voltage. b , Cycling performance of NCA || DPF LPSC || Li at a high

DPF LPSC can still stably charge-discharge (Supplementary Fig. 35). The Li||SSE interface study with scanning electron microscopy and energy dispersive spectroscopy reveals that the interface between Li and DPF LPSC exhibits a uniform and flat morphology (Supplementary Fig. 36a,b) and is F and O enriched (Supplementary Fig. 37), distinct from the interface between Li and bare LPSC, which are not in intimate contact after cycling and have lithium dendrites observed inside the SSE bulk (Supplementary Fig. 36c,d).

The high interfacial energy of lithiophobic DPF LPSC with Li promotes Li planar plating along the interface between Li and DPF LPSC, but suppresses vertical Li dendrite growth into DPF LPSC. Here, during the Li deposition test, we observed a very dense and uniform cross-section and flat surface of the deposited Li (Supplementary Fig. 38). As a result of this high electrochemical stability during Li deposition, the Li || DPF LPSC || Li cell delivers a very high critical capacity of more than 36 mAh cm -2 at 0.45 mA cm -2 without shorting (Fig. 3e), while the Li || LPSC || Li cells can only discharge to 12.3 mAh cm -2 before shorting (Supplementary Fig. 39).

By suppressing SSE reduction and Li dendrite growth, DPF LPSC largely enhances Li reversibility at the anode. To reduce contact issues with the stainless steel (SS), the Li || DPF LPSC || Li cells underwent five cycles with capacity control, followed by complete Li stripping to form Li || DPF LPSC || Mg@SS cells (testing protocol in Supplementary Fig. 40). After these activation cycles, the Li CE was measured; the Li CE reaches 99.5% within 40 cycles (Fig. 3f (red)), with an average CE ≈ 99.7% from 200 cycles to 1,000 cycles (charge-discharge profile in Supplementary Fig. 41). By contrast, with the same activated Li || LPSC || Mg@ SS cell, pristine LPSC achieved ~97% CE but shorted quickly (Fig. 3f, blue), agreeing with previous reports 3,5-7 . Without the pre-cycling activation, DPF LPSC still reaches 99.5% CE after 200 cycles (Supplementary Fig. 42) in Li || LPSC || Mg@Ni cells. Due to the reduction of the lithiophobic SREI in the first cycle, the initial CE (62.3%) of DPF LPSC is only slightly higher than that of bare LPSC (60.3%; Supplementary Table 3),

Cycle number

rate of 2 C, which is a continuation from the 31st cycle in the rate test of a . c , d , Cycling performance of NCA || DPF LPSC || Li at a high loading of 3.5 mAh cm -2 (0.2 C) and 7.1 mAh cm -2 (0.1 C). The insets show magnified views of CE values.

but the initial CE could reach a high value of 84% at an increased initial capacity of 2.0 mAh cm -2 (Supplementary Fig. 42). These results highlight the LiF-Li x P y O z F i SREI's ability to reduce SSE decomposition and suppress Li dendrites, making the SREI LPSC promising for high-loading, long-life ASSLMB applications.

## Performance of SREI SSE in ASSLMBs

Sulfide-based SSEs can be oxidized at a low potential, making them electrochemically incompatible with a typical 4 V cathode 9 , and the low compatibility with lithium limits their performance at high rates and high loading. Due to the small interface resistance and high stability of the DPF SREI, a high rate performance is delivered in the NCA || DPF LPSC || Li cell with a 4.2 V cut-off voltage at 30 °C and 2.5 MPa. At a rate of 0.1 C, the full cell achieved a high reversible capacity of 160.3 mAh g -1 of NCA. At higher rates (0.3, 0.5, 1.0 and 2.0 C), the cell maintained capacities of 139, 129, 109 and 76 mAh g -1 , respectively (Fig. 4a and Supplementary Fig. 43), with full recovery when returning to 1 C. Notably, at a high rate of 2 C (2.6 mA cm -2 ), the cell exhibited stable cycling for over 4,500 cycles with a very high capacity retention of 90% (Fig. 4b).

A high loading requires high stability at both the cathode and Li anode; the NCA || Li with pristine LPSC faded very quickly at a high loading of 3.5 mAh cm -2 , with short circuits occurring quickly (Fig. 4c) and visible dark spots inside the SSE (Supplementary Fig. 44a). However, the NCA || DPF LPSC || Li cell exhibited stable cycling at 0.2 C for over 370 cycles with 75% capacity retention (Fig. 4c), and showed no signal of dendrites (Supplementary Fig. 44b). The voltage profile is shown in Supplementary Fig. 45, with an average full-cell CE that achieves &gt;99.9% after five cycles due to high stability at both the high-voltage cathode and Li anode. Even at a very high loading of 7.1 mAh cm -2 , the full cell maintains stability for over 600 cycles (~10,000 h), with CE quickly reaching 99.9% (Fig. 4d). This excellent endurance in cycle life, coupled with its high-rate charge-discharge capabilities at room temperature

a

b

Fig. 5 | The application of electrophile reduction strategy on electrodes and their electrochemical performance. a , b , High-resolution transmission electron microscopy images of the DPF NCA particles and the magnified DPF SREI structure. d , d-spacing. c , Quantified atomic composition ratios of the DPF SREI

and low pressure, represents a breakthrough (Supplementary Table 4) for practical applications of ASSLMBs.

## Universality of the electrophile reduction strategy

The electrochemical reduction of electrophiles provides a general solution for materials protection, such as cathode materials. Here, the strong electrophilicity and high reduction potential of DPF successfully established a DPF SREI layer on NCA powder (DPF NCA) by the same method, which substantially enhanced cycling stability and the operating voltage of the ASSLMB.

Characterization via scanning electron microscopy reveals that DPF NCA particles exhibit the same morphology and structure as pristine NCA (Supplementary Figs. 46 and 47) but feature a uniform distribution of F, P and O elements on the particle surface (Supplementary Fig. 48). The transmission electron microscopy images (Fig. 5a and Supplementary Fig. 49) and element mapping (Supplementary Fig. 50) of DPF NCA particles indicate that this SREI is very thin (5-10 nm) and uniform. Magnified images of the DPF SREI layer on DPF-NCA particles (Fig. 5b) indicate a highly amorphous feature, and XPS confirmed strong F, O and P signals on the surface of DPF-NCA particles (Fig. 5c and Supplementary Fig. 51), with minimal Ni and Co signals before sputtering, and an increase after. Similar to the SREI on SSE particles, this SREI is also composed primarily of LiF-Li x P y O z F i . These results agree well with the observation of SREI on SSE particles, indicating the high consistency and applicability of this strategy.

The DPF SREI on the cathode could effectively inhibit the cracking and O2 loss of the cathode, because LiF and Li 3 PO4 are excellent interphase components for high-voltage cathodes 39 . To evaluate the DPF SREI on cathodes, we used bare LPSC rather than DPF LPSC in the composite cathode (DPF NCA with LPSC). The high-voltage stability of the DPF-NCA cathode was evaluated by monitoring the leakage current when holding the (DPF NCA with LPSC) || LPSC || Li cell at 4.3 V, where the cell with DPF NCA exhibited a much lower current than that using

c

on the DPF NCA cathode at different sputtering time (0 s, 120 s, 300 s, 600 s and 900 s). d , e , Cycling performance of (DPF NCA with pristine LPSC) || DPF LPSC || Li at cut-off voltage of 4.2 V and a loading of 2.6 mAh cm -2 ( d ) and 4.5 V and 1.8 mAh cm -2 ( e ). The insets show zoomed-in views of the CE.

pristine NCA (Supplementary Fig. 52). This aligns well with the lower interphase resistance increase in the cells with DPF NCA than that in cells with pure NCA (Supplementary Fig. 53). The cycling stability of (DPF NCA with LPSC) || DPF LPSC || Li full cells was also evaluated, and the charge-discharge curve is shown in Supplementary Fig. 54, where a slightly higher cell polarization is observed because the DPF SREI acts as an electron-blocking layer to reduce the electron conduction between cathode particles (lower electronic conductivity of composite cathode of ~1.07 × 10 -4 S cm -1 ; Supplementary Fig. 55). Due to the activation of LiF-Li x P y O z F i on DPF-NCA particles, the discharge capacity is reduced in the first cycle, but it recovers in the second cycle. The full cells with an area capacity of 2.6 mAh cm -2 exhibit excellent durability, as indicated by stable cycles exceeding 2,000 cycles at 0.2 C with an excellent capacity retention of 70% at the 1,200th cycle (Fig. 5d). This is because the DPF SREI on the cathode particles not only prevents the side reaction of LPSC but also protects the cathode. Even at a low rate of 0.2 C, the average CE can reach &gt;99.96%, indicating that fading on the cathode is effectively halted by the DPF SREI (Fig. 5d). Despite the incompatibility of pristine sulfide-based SSEs with a typical 4 V cathode, the DPF NCA extends the operating voltage of the ASSLMB to 4.5 V with a high average CE of &gt;99.94%, with 79% capacity retention after 400 cycles (Fig. 5e). With high consistency, we also get DPF LiNi 0.8 Mn0.1 Co0.1 O2 (DPF NMC811), facilitating stable cycling of (DPF NMC811 with LPSC) || DPF LPSC || Li at 4.4 V with an average CE of &gt;99.93% and 82.5% capacity retention after 350 cycles (Supplementary Fig. 56). The broad applicability of this strategy opens possibilities for various metal-nucleophile materials (SSE or electrodes based on Li sulfide, Li oxide, Li-Si and other metal-based (Na, K) materials).

In conclusion, this study presents a breakthrough in the interphase designation through the introduction of a family of reductive electrophiles that can gain electrons and metal cations from metalnucleophile materials to form a SREI. By designing the structure of electrophiles, a highly lithiophobic and electron-blocking all-inorganic LiF-Li x P y O z F SREI layer is generated on the surface of sulfide SSE

particles to substantially improve its electrochemical stability at both the cathode and anode. Notably, SREI-protected ASSLMBs have shown outstanding durability, delivering 4,500 cycles at a moderate loading of 1.3 mAh cm -2 and over 600 cycles even at a high loading of 7.1 mAh cm -2 . To prove its applicability, this SREI is also applied to metal oxide cathodes, which extends the operating voltage. These findings open pathways to materials protection for a wide range of materials, which hold implications for advanced batteries and beyond, for example, in other electrochemical materials and devices.

## Online content

Any methods, additional references, Nature Portfolio reporting summaries, source data, extended data, supplementary information, acknowledgements, peer review information; details of author contributions and competing interests; and statements of data and code availability are available at https://doi.org/10.1038/s41563-024-02064-y.

## References

1. Lacivita, V., Artrith, N. &amp; Ceder, G. Structural and compositional factors that control the Li-ion conductivity in LiPON electrolytes. Chem. Mater. 30 , 7077-7090 (2018).
2. Schwietert, T . K., Vasileiadis, A. &amp; Wagemaker, M. First-principles prediction of the electrochemical stability and reaction mechanisms of solid-state electrolytes. JACS Au 1 , 1488-1496 (2021).
3. Fan, X. et al. Fluorinated solid electrolyte interphase enables highly reversible solid-state Li metal battery. Sci. Adv. 4 , eaau9245 (2018).
4. Ji, X. et al. Solid -state electrolyte design for lithium dendrite suppression. Adv. Mater. 32 , 2002741 (2020).
5. Park, S. H. et al. Designing 3D anode based on pore -size -dependent Li deposition behavior for reversible Li -free all -solid -state batteries. Adv. Sci. 9 , 2203130 (2022).
6. Cho, S. et al. Highly reversible lithium host materials for high -energy -density anode -free lithium metal batteries. Adv. Funct. Mater. 32 , 2208629 (2022).
7. Gu, D., Kim, H., Lee, J.-H. &amp; Park, S. Surface-roughened current collectors for anode-free all-solid-state batteries. J. Energy Chem. 70 , 248-257 (2022).
8. Walther, F. et al. Visualization of the interfacial decomposition of composite cathodes in argyrodite-based all-solid-state batteries using time-of-flight secondary-ion mass spectrometry. Chem. Mater. 31 , 3745-3755 (2019).
9. Zhou, L. et al. High areal capacity, long cycle life 4 V ceramic all-solid-state Li-ion batteries enabled by chloride solid electrolytes. Nat. Energy 7 , 83-93 (2022).
10. Wu, Z. et al. Growing single-crystalline seeds on lithiophobic substrates to enable fast-charging lithium-metal batteries. Nat. Energy 8 , 340-350 (2023).
11. Zhu, Y., He, X. &amp; Mo, Y. Origin of outstanding stability in the lithium solid electrolyte materials: insights from thermodynamic analyses based on first-principles calculations. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 7 , 23685-23693 (2015).
12. Arnold, W. et al. Synthesis of fluorine-doped lithium argyrodite solid electrolytes for solid-state lithium metal batteries. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 14 , 11483-11492 (2022).
13. Wang, M. J., Kazyak, E., Dasgupta, N. P. &amp; Sakamoto, J. Transitioning solid-state batteries from lab to market: linking electro-chemo-mechanics with practical considerations. Joule 5 , 1371-1390 (2021).
14. Raj, V. et al. Direct correlation between void formation and lithium dendrite growth in solid-state electrolytes with interlayers. Nat. Mater. 21 , 1050-1056 (2022).
15. Lee, Y.-G. et al. High-energy long-cycling all-solid-state lithium metal batteries enabled by silver-carbon composite anodes. Nat. Energy 5 , 299-308 (2020).
16. Simon, F. J., Hanauer, M., Henss, A., Richter, F. H. &amp; Janek, J. Properties of the interphase formed between argyrodite-type Li 6 PS5Cl and polymer-based PEO10:LiTFSI. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 11 , 42186-42196 (2019).
17. Choi, H. J. et al. In situ formed Ag -Li intermetallic layer for stable cycling of all -solid -state lithium batteries. Adv. Sci. 9 , 2103826 (2022).
18. Su, Y. et al. A more stable lithium anode by mechanical constriction for solid state batteries. Energy Environ. Sci. 13 , 908-916 (2020).
19. Sung, J. et al. Ultra -thin lithium silicide interlayer for solid -state lithium -metal batteries. Adv. Mater. 35 , 2210835 (2023).
20. Wang, T. et al. A self-regulated gradient interphase for dendrite-free solid-state Li batteries. Energy Environ. Sci. 15 , 1325-1333 (2022).
21. Lee, S. et al. Design of a lithiophilic and electron-blocking interlayer for dendrite-free lithium-metal solid-state batteries. Sci. Adv. 8 , eabq0153 (2022).
22. Wan, H. et al. Critical interphase overpotential as a lithium dendrite-suppression criterion for all-solid-state lithium battery design. Nat. Energy 8 , 473-481 (2023).
23. Ye, L. &amp; Li, X. A dynamic stability design strategy for lithium metal solid state batteries. Nature 593 , 218-222 (2021).
24. Tan, D. H. S. et al. Carbon-free high-loading silicon anodes enabled by sulfide solid electrolytes. Science 373 , 1494-1499 (2021).
25. Han, F. et al. High electronic conductivity as the origin of lithium dendrite formation within solid electrolytes. Nat. Energy 4 , 187-196 (2019).
26. Park, R. J.-Y . et al. Semi-solid alkali metal electrodes enabling high critical current densities in solid electrolyte batteries. Nat. Energy 6 , 314-322 (2021).
27. Banerjee, A., Wang, X., Fang, C., Wu, E. A. &amp; Meng, Y. S. Interfaces and interphases in all-solid-state batteries with inorganic solid electrolytes. Chem. Rev. 120 , 6878-6933 (2020).
28. Manthiram, A., Yu, X. &amp; Wang, S. Lithium battery chemistries enabled by solid-state electrolytes. Nat. Rev. Mater. 2 , 16103 (2017).
29. Egerton, R. F. Electron Energy-Loss Spectroscopy in the Electron Microscope (Springer Science &amp; Business Media, 2011).
30.  Liou, S.-C., Oleshko, V. P., Kuo, W. C.-H., Yang, T.-J. &amp; Shu, G.-J. Investigation of the excitations of plasmons and surface exciton polaritons in monoclinic gadolinium sesquioxide by electron energy-loss spectroscopy and plasmon spectroscopic imaging. RSC Adv. 12 , 10345-10354 (2022).
31. Li, Y . et al. Correlating structure and function of battery interphases at atomic resolution using cryoelectron microscopy. Joule 2 , 2167-2177 (2018).
32. Chen, Y. et al. Origin of dendrite-free lithium deposition in concentrated electrolytes. Nat. Commun. 14 , 2655 (2023).
33. Li, Y . et al. Atomic structure of sensitive battery materials and interfaces revealed by cryo-electron microscopy. Science 358 , 506-510 (2017).
34.  Cao, X. et al. Monolithic solid-electrolyte interphases formed in fluorinated orthoformate-based electrolytes minimize Li depletion and pulverization. Nat. Energy 4 , 796-805 (2019).
35. Margolis, H. C., Kwak, S.-Y. &amp; Yamazaki, H. Role of mineralization inhibitors in the regulation of hard tissue biomineralization: relevance to initial enamel formation and maturation. Front. Physiol. 5 , 339 (2014).
36.  Cölfen, H. &amp; Mann, S. Higher -order organization by mesoscale self -assembly and transformation of hybrid nanostructures. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 42 , 2350-2365 (2003).

37. Kozen, A. C., Pearse, A. J., Lin, C.-F., Noked, M. &amp; Rubloff, G. W. Atomic layer deposition of the solid electrolyte LiPON. Chem. Mater. 27 , 5324-5331 (2015).
38.  Xia, H.-Y. et al. A new carbon-incorporated lithium phosphate solid electrolyte. J. Power Sources 514 , 230603 (2021).
39. Tan, S. et al. Additive engineering for robust interphases to stabilize high-Ni layered structures at ultra-high voltage of 4.8 V. Nat. Energy 7 , 484-494 (2022).
40.  Shi, P. et al. Lithium difluorophosphate as a dendrite-suppressing additive for lithium metal batteries. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 10 , 22201-22209 (2018).
41. Cheng, D. et al. Unveiling the stable nature of the solid electrolyte interphase between lithium metal and LiPON via cryogenic electron microscopy. Joule 4 , 2484-2500 (2020).
42. Kasemchainan, J. et al. Critical stripping current leads to dendrite formation on plating in lithium anode solid electrolyte cells. Nat. Mater. 18 , 1105-1111 (2019).
43.  Krauskopf, T., Mogwitz, B., Rosenbach, C., Zeier, W. G. &amp; Janek, J. Diffusion limitation of lithium metal and Li-Mg alloy anodes on LLZO type solid electrolytes as a function of temperature and pressure. Adv. Energy Mater. 9 , 1902568 (2019).
44.  Zhao, L. et al. Taming metal-solid electrolyte interface instability via metal strain hardening. Adv. Energy Mater . 13 , 2300679 (2023).

Publisher's note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional aff.shortiliations.

Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.

- © The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited 2025, corrected publication 2025

## Methods

## Materials and preparation of electrolytes

React agent, TBAF solution (1.0 M in THF) and TFAA (≥99%) were bought from Sigma-Aldrich. DPF was prepared by the reaction between difluorophosphoric acid and phosphoric anhydride 45 . Difluorophosphoric arid (1.0 mol) and P 4 O10 (0.25 mol) were under gentle reflux for 1 h and the mixture was then distilled. The fraction boiling below 75 °C was collected and purified by fractional distillation. The product has a boiling point of ~72 °C. The 19 F and 31 P spectra were recorded at 25 °C on a Bruker 400 MHz high-resolution spectrometer with DMSO-d6 as the deuterated solvent. Diluter including hexane (≥99%, boiling point 69 °C), DME (99.9%, inhibitor free, boiling point of 85 °C) were bought from Sigma-Aldrich and dried by molecular sieve overnight.

The LPSC electrolyte was prepared by milling Li 2 S, P 2 S5 and LiCl with a stoichiometric ratio followed by annealing at 550 °C for 4 h.

For the SREI-coated SSE particles and cathodes (TBAF LPSC, TFAA LPSC, DPF LPSC, DPF NCA and DPF NMC811), all the fabrication processes and battery assembling were done in an Ar-filled glove box with H2O content of &lt;0.1 ppm to avoid moisture in the air. The reactant was diluted with inert solvent hexane first to get the reacting solution (22-27 mg ml -1 ). TBAF solution is not mixable with hexane, so 1ml TBAF reacting solution was prepared by diluting 100 ml TBAF solution with 900 ml DME. DME was used as diluter because DME has low polarity and only a weak reaction with LPSC, and it has been reported to be compatible to LPSC with only slightly influenced ionic conductivity 46,47 . TFAA reacting solution was prepared by mixing TFAA with 1 ml hexane. DPF reacting solution was prepared by mixing DPF with 1 ml hexane and DME (v:v, 94:6); DME was used as a co-solvent here. Then, the LPSC particles were hand-milled with a reacting solution several times to make them contact. The weight ratio of reacting agent to LPSC particles was around 1.4 wt%. During the hand-milling process, the reacting solution reacted and evaporated very quickly; the coated particles were dry with a white-grey colour, and there was no colour change compared with the pristine LPSC particles. The particle size primarily ranged from 500 nm to 3 μm. To make sure there was no residual liquid, the coated powder was further dried in vacuum before using. The DPF-NCA powder was obtained with the same process as the DPF LPSC.

Mg-doped Li (Li0.99 Mg0.01 ) is used to mitigate the contact loss: the Li was prepared by melting Li and Mg at 400 °C and removing the impurities. The atomic ratio of Mg in the Li was around 1%.

## Cell assembling

The Li || Li symmetric cell was assembled as follows. First, 130-150 mg LPSC or treated LPSC powder was pressed at 360 MPa to form a pellet. After that, Li foil was attached to both sides of the LPSC pellets. The stack pressure for the two-electrode Li || Li symmetric cell was 2.5 MPa.

Before assembling the full cell, a composite cathode powder was prepared by mixing active material (NCA or DPF-NCA/DPF-NMC811) and SSE (LPSC or DPF LPSC) with a weight ratio of 75:25. The two-electrode full cell was assembled as follows. First, 130 mg LPSC electrolyte was pressed at 120 MPa to form an electrolyte pellet. Then, the composite cathode powder was spread on one side of the electrolyte pellet and pressed at 360 MPa. After that, Li(1% Mg) foil was attached to the other side of the electrolyte pellet. The stack pressure for the two-electrode full cell was around 2.5 MPa.

For the pre-cycling test, the Li@SS || LPSC || Li@SS cells were first charged-discharged for five cycles using capacity control, and then all the lithium on one side of the cells was completely stripped; this process was repeated for some cycles to ensure the Li was completely stripped to form the Li || LPSC || SS cell. After these activation cycles, the Li CE was measured.

In this paper, three current collectors were used: (1) SS (SS cell mould itself acts as current collector) in the full-cell test, CCD test and Li || DPF LPSC || SS test; (2) copper, chosen for its ease of cutting relative to that of other anode current collectors, to ensure intact cross-sections during sample preparation; and (3) Mg@Ni, used because copper will slightly react with a sulfide-based SSE, so we used Ni as the current collector for the Li || DPF LPSC || Ni CE test, and a ~50 nm Mg layer was deposited to make good contact between the SSE and the current collector.

## Characterizations

X-ray powder diffraction was performed on a D8 Advance instrument with LynxEye and Sol-X detectors (Bruker, USA) using Cu K α radiation. The morphologies and element distributions were obtained on a field-emission scanning electron microscope (SU-70, Hitachi) equipped with energy dispersive spectroscopy. The distribution of different elements on the surface of SREI-protected LPSC was analysed on a Ga + focused ion beam and scanning electron microscope (Tescan GAIA3) equipped with a time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectroscope. For XPS measurements, all the particles were pressed into pellets before the XPS tests. The data of LPSC SSE were collected with Kratos Axis 165. The data of the NCA cathode were acquired with a K-alpha Thermo Scientific using Al K α radiation ( hν = 1,486.6 eV; h is Planck's constant and v is the frequency of the X-ray radiation). The tests were conducted under ultra-high vacuum (&lt;1 × 10 -12 atm) with a measured spot size of 500 μm in diameter. A flood gun was used during the analysis to compensate for the charging of the samples. The samples were transferred from the argon glove box into the XPS chamber with a vacuum transfer vessel to avoid exposure to air. Sputter depth profiling was carried out using an Ar + ion gun with ion energy at 200 eV and with a roster size of 2 mm. The angle between the surface normal and the ion gun beam was 0°. The binding energy was corrected based on the C 1 s spectrum, assigning C-C to 284.8 eV. Relative atomic concentrations were calculated by integrating respective peaks with a Shirley background, using the CasaXPS software, accounting for respective atomic sensitivity factors.

Transmission electron microscopy specimens were prepared by directly dropping the LPSC or cathode powder onto a Cu grid. Microstructures and electronic excitations were examined in a JEOL-2100F (scanning) transmission electron microscope equipped with a Gatan image filter (Tridiem 863 model), operating at 200 kV. The energy resolution was 0.8 eV throughout the (scanning) transmission electron microscopy and electron energy loss spectroscopy imaging experiments. The contribution of individual reference spectra to an experimental spectrum could then be calculated through the multiple linear least square fitting using the DigitalMicrograph software package (Gatan Microscopy Suite, Gatan-AMETEK).

## Computational details

Density functional theory calculations were carried out using the Vienna Ab initio Simulation Package v.6.3 code 48 . Total energies and electron densities were computed with the Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof exchange-correlation functional 49 . A plane-wave basis set was used with a kinetic energy cut-off of 520 eV for bulk and surface calculations. Core electrons were treated with the projector augmented-wave method 50 .

LPSC surface slabs were constructed by cleaving the optimized bulk structures along low-index facets with different exposed surface atoms. To reconcile the loss of the symmetricity of LPSC during cleavage, we generated additional slabs by moving atoms from the outer-face sites to their rotation and axis-symmetric equivalent positions on the opposite side of the slab 51 . Periodic slab images were separated in the z direction (perpendicular to the surface) by 15 Å of vacuum. The surface energy was calculated as

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where E (slab) is the total energy of low-index surface slab with different exposed surface atoms, E (bulk) is the energy of the bulk Li 6 PS5 Cl

phase, n is the number of bulk LPSC units in the surface slab and A is the surface area of the slab.

The molecular structures of liquid-phase solvents were first constructed and relaxed from a classical molecular dynamics approach using the OPLS-AA force field 52 in the Large-scale Atomic/Molecular Massively Parallel Simulator (http://lammps.sandia.gov) package 53 . Then, the structure was optimized with the Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof (generalized gradient approximation) functional until the force tolerance was lower than 10 -3 eV Å -1 and the energy difference was lower than 10 -4 eV.

The LPSC-liquid slab model was built up by placing the liquid on the energetically stable LPSC surface. AIMD simulations were performed applying a canonical ensemble (constant number of particles N , constant volume V and constant temperature T of the system) with a time step of 1 fs. The velocities were rescaled every 20 molecular dynamics steps to readjust the target temperature to equilibrium. A Nose-Hoover thermostat 54 with a Nose mass parameter of 1 was used to control the temperature. Atomic charge analysis was carried out by means of the Bader approach implemented in the Bader code 55 . The VASPKIT code was used for post-processing the VASP calculated results 56 .

The frontier molecular orbital energies of solvent molecules and LPSC crystal were obtained from quantum chemistry calculations using the Gaussian16 quantum chemical program. For the solvent molecule calculation, the density functional was B3LYP. The polarizable continuum model (PCM, a solvation model) with the parameter of heptane was used for TFAA and DPF molecules, while the parameter of acetone was used for other molecules. For LPSC crystal, a periodic boundary condition with Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof functional was adopted. The basis sets were 6-31+g( d , p ).

## Data availability

All of the data that support the findings of this study are available in the Article. Atomic configurations of the computational models constructed in this study are available via figshare at https://doi.org/ 10.6084/m9.figshare.27228867 (ref. 57). Source data are provided with this paper.

## References

45.  Robinson, E. A. The preparation and Raman spectrum of diphosphoryl tetrafluoride: comparison with the spectrum of diphosphoryl tetrachloride. Can. J. Chem. 40 , 1725-1729 (1962).
46.  Wang, X., Ye, L., Nan, C.-W. &amp; Li, X. Effect of solvents on a Li 10 GeP2S12 -based composite electrolyte via solution method for solid-state battery applications. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 14 , 46627-46634 (2022).
47. Wan, H. et al. F and N rich solid electrolyte for stable all -solid -state battery. Adv. Funct. Mater. 32 , 2110876 (2022).
48.  Kresse, G. &amp; Furthmüller, J. Eff.shorticient iterative schemes for ab initio total-energy calculations using a plane-wave basis set. Phys. Rev. B 54 , 11169-11186 (1996).
49. Perdew, J. P., Burke, K. &amp; Ernzerhof, M. Generalized gradient approximation made simple. Phys. Rev. Lett. 77 , 3865-3868 (1996).
50.  Kohn, W. &amp; Sham, L. J. Self-consistent equations including exchange and correlation effects. Phys. Rev. 140 , A1133-A1138 (1965).
51. Golov, A. &amp; Carrasco, J. Molecular-level insight into the interfacial reactivity and ionic conductivity of a Li-argyrodite Li 6 PS5Cl solid electrolyte at bare and coated Li-metal anodes. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 13 , 43734-43745 (2021).
52. Jorgensen, W. L., Maxwell, D. S. &amp; Tirado-Rives, J. Development and testing of the OPLS all-atom force field on conformational energetics and properties of organic liquids. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 118 , 11225-11236 (1996).
53. Plimpton, S. Fast parallel algorithms for short-range molecular dynamics. J. Comput. Phys. 117 , 1-19 (1995).
54.  Evans, D. J. &amp; Holian, B. L. The Nose-Hoover thermostat. J. Chem. Phys. 83 , 4069-4074 (1985).
55. Tang, W., Sanville, E. &amp; Henkelman, G. A grid-based Bader analysis algorithm without lattice bias. J. Phys. Condens. Matter 21 , 084204 (2009).
56. Wang, V., Xu, N., Liu, J.-C., Tang, G. &amp; Geng, W.-T. VASPKIT: a user-friendly interface facilitating high-throughput computing and analysis using VASP code. Comput. Phys. Commun. 267 , 108033 (2021).
57. Wang, Z. Atomistic configurations of solvent-LPSC slab and solvent-Li cluster. figshare https://doi.org/10.6084/ m9.figshare.27228867 (2024).

## Acknowledgements

The work was supported by the US Department of Energy under award number DE-AC05-76RL01830, received by C.W. We appreciate the technical support from the Maryland NanoCenter.

## Author contributions

W.Z. conceived the idea; performed experiments; and wrote the manuscript. Z.W. performed molecular simulations and density functional theory calculations. H.W. helped with the testing. A.-M.L. performed chemical synthesizing. Y.L. and Y.R. helped with cathode preparation. S.-C.L. helped with scanning transmission electron microscopy measurement. K.Z. discussed the mechanism. C.J. and B.L.L. helped with the XPS test. C.W. supervised the study and the manuscript writing. All authors discussed the results.

## Competing interests

The authors declare no competing interests.

## Additional information

Supplementary information The online version contains supplementary material available at https://doi.org/10.1038/s41563-024-02064-y.

Correspondence and requests for materials should be addressed to Chunsheng Wang.

Peer review information Nature Materials thanks Ji-Guang Zhang and the other, anonymous, reviewer(s) for their contribution to the peer review of this work.

Reprints and permissions information is available at www.nature.com/reprints.