## All-solid-state Li-S batteries with fast solidsolid sulfur reaction

https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-024-08298-9

Received: 20 November 2023

Accepted: 29 October 2024

Published online: 15 January 2025

Huimin Song 1 , Konrad Münch 2,3 , Xu Liu 1 , Kaier Shen 1 , Ruizhuo Zhang 4 , Timo Weintraut 2,3 , Yuriy Yusim 2,3 , Dequan Jiang 1 , Xufeng Hong 1 , Jiashen Meng 1 , Yatao Liu 1 , Mengxue He 1 , Yitao Li 1 , Philip Henkel 4 , Torsten Brezesinski 4 , Jürgen Janek 2,3,4  &amp; Quanquan Pang 1 ✉

With promises for high specific energy, high safety and low cost, the all-solid-state lithium-sulfur battery (ASSLSB) is ideal for next-generation energy storage 1-5 . However, the poor rate performance and short cycle life caused by the sluggish solid-solid sulfur redox reaction (SSSRR) at the three-phase boundaries remain to be solved. Here we demonstrate a fast SSSRR enabled by lithium thioborophosphate iodide (LBPSI) glass-phase solid electrolytes (GSEs). On the basis of the reversible redox between I -and I 2 /I 3 -, the solid electrolyte (SE)-as well as serving as a superionic conductor-functions as a surficial redox mediator that facilitates the sluggish reactions at the solid-solid two-phase boundaries, thereby substantially increasing the density of active sites. Through this mechanism, the ASSLSB exhibits ultrafast charging capability, showing a high specific capacity of 1,497 mAh g -1 sulfur on charging at 2C (30 °C), while still maintaining 784 mAh g -1 sulfur at 20C. Notably, a specific capacity of 432 mAh g -1 sulfur is achieved on charging at an extreme rate of 150C at 60 °C. Furthermore, the cell demonstrates superior cycling stability over 25,000 cycles with 80.2% capacity retention at 5C (25 °C). We expect that our work on redox-mediated SSSRR will pave the way for developing advanced ASSLSBs that are high energy and safe.

Check for updates

Developing all-solid-state batteries is considered important for electric transportation, owing to their expected high safety and specific energy 6-11 . All-solid-state batteries based on layered metal oxide (LMO) cathodes are attractive 12,13 but irreversible parasitic reactions of LMOs with the SE at high potentials and the chemo-mechanical degradation of Ni-rich LMOs hinder long-term stability and rate capability 14-16 . The ASSLSB with its high specific energy can, in principle, eliminate some of these challenges, as the moderate potential does not cause notable oxidation of the SEs 1-5 , nor does any release of reactive oxygen on charging threaten the thermal safety 17,18 , therefore promising higher intrinsic safety. The use of SEs would further eliminate the notorious polysulfide shuttling present in liquid-electrolyte-based Li-S batteries 19 .

However, ASSLSBs have been plagued by poor rate performance and cycle life because of the very slow SSSRR of both elemental sulfur and Li 2 S. As both active materials are electron-insulating, the reaction can only occur at the SE|active material|carbon three-phase boundary, which is all solid. As the density of three-phase boundary sites is typically much lower than that of two-phase boundary sites, the reactions are spatially highly confined, challenging effective solid-solid charge transfer. Notable efforts have been made by introducing functional additives to the cathodes, such as Cu, LiVS 2 and modified carbon 20-23 , but the poor kinetics caused by the 'all-solid three-phase boundary' challenge is not fully resolved (Supplementary Table 1). Also, the use of Li 2 S as active material may add technical challenges for electrode manufacturing 4,19,24 .

In this work, we demonstrate a fast SSSRR and high cycling stability achieved with LBPSI GSEs. In contrast to using an extra electronmediating agent, the electrolyte itself is formulated with redox-active iodine, such that it serves as surficial redox mediator to facilitate the oxidation of Li 2 S particles. The iodine anions on the SE surface can be electrochemically oxidized to I 2 and I 3 -(denoted as I 2 /I 3 -) at the SE|C boundary on charge, which subsequently chemically oxidizes the Li 2 S in contact. Notably, such a SE surface-based redox-mediated process enables the reaction at the SE|Li 2 S two-phase boundary that is otherwise inactive but much more populated than the required SE|Li 2 S|C three-phase boundary (Fig. 1a). The tendency of the formulated electrolytes to form a glass (as opposed to crystals) enables the reversible iodine redox instead of persistent SE degradation. With this redox mediation strategy 2,25-29 , we demonstrate ASSLSBs with excellent charging capability (up to 35C at 30 °C) and cycling stability.

## Synthesis and characterization of GSEs

B2 S3 is an excellent glass former and facilitates the formation of GSEs of Li 2 S-B2S3 (ref. 30), a low-mass-density family of sulfide electrolytes. However, the pristine lithium thioborate glass shows very low ionic conductivity 30 . As P 2 S5 is also known to form sulfide glasses 31 , we propose a new class of superionic LBPSI GSEs (Li 2 S-B2S3 -P2 S5 -LiI) by tailoring the ratio of the two glass formers and using LiI as a glass-network

1 Beijing Key Laboratory for Theory and Technology of Advanced Battery Materials, School of Materials Science and Engineering, Peking University, Beijing, China. 2 Institute of Physical Chemistry, Justus Liebig University Giessen, Giessen, Germany. 3 Center for Materials Research, Justus Liebig University Giessen, Giessen, Germany. 4 Battery and Electrochemistry Laboratory (BELLA), Institute of Nanotechnology, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT), Karlsruhe, Germany. ✉ e-mail: qqpang@pku.edu.cn

Fig. 1 | Fundamental concept and characterization of the LBPSI GSEs.

a , Schematic showing the design principle for the fast-charging mechanism of ASSLSBs. The redox-mediating SE shown in blue is moderately redox active and generates surficial I 2 /I 3 -to mediate the sulfur reaction on fast charge; this revitalizes reactions at the SE|active material two-phase boundary that is otherwise inactive and much more populated than the conventionally required SE|C|active material three-phase boundary. b , The variation of ionic conductivity with increasing P 2 S5 ratio, which is defined as n (P 2 S5 )/ n (P 2 S5 + B 2 S3 ). With the addition of P 2 S5 , the ionic conductivity increases and reaches a maximum at n (P 2 S5 )/ n (P 2 S5 + B 2 S3 ) = 0.17 and then it decreases at higher ratios. c , Arrhenius plots of ionic conductivity between -40 °C and 60 °C with the corresponding activation energy ( E a ) for the three electrolytes with n (P 2 S5 )/ n (P 2 S5 + B 2 S3 ) ratios

facilitator 32 . The target GSEs were obtained by a melt-quenching method and X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis confirms the amorphous state of the LBPSI (detailed in Methods and Extended Data Fig. 1a).

of 0, 0.17 and 0.29. d , e , Local structural analysis of the three electrolytes using 11 B ( d ) and 7 Li ( e ) MAS NMR. The ball-and-stick models in d show the different [BS 4 ] coordination environments; the mono-bridged [BS4 ] means [BS 4 ] that is bridged with each other, with only one B-S-B bond (forming chain-like structure), whereas the multi-bridged [BS 4 ] means that each [BS 4 ] is bridged with several B-S-B bonds (forming a network structure). The B, S and Li atoms are shown in blue, yellow and red, respectively, solid lines represent the covalent bonds between B and S and dashed lines represent the ionic bonds between S and Li. The peaks in e at 0.17-0.50 ppm correspond to Li + that is solvated by non-bridging sulfur, as shown in the inset of d , whereas the peak around -4.4 ppm corresponds to iodine-bound Li + . a.u., arbitrary units.

Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurements reveal that the room-temperature ionic conductivities of pure thioborate glass (Li 2 S-B2S3-LiI, denoted as LBSI) 32 and thiophosphate-dominant glass

## Article

(P 2 S5 /(P 2 S5 + B 2 S3 ) mol/mol ratio of 0.80; n (P 2 S5 )/ n (P 2 S5 + B 2 S3 ) hereafter) are only 0.3200 and 0.0027 mS cm -1 , whereas the LBPSI electrolytes with n (P 2 S5 )/ n (P 2 S5 + B 2 S3 ) of 0.11, 0.17 and 0.29 exhibit high ionic conductivities of 1.6, 2.4 and 1.8 mS cm -1 , respectively (Fig. 1b). Note that the ionic conductivity decreases on increasing the n (P 2 S5 )/ n (P 2 S5 + B 2 S3 ) beyond 0.29. Temperature-dependent ionic conductivity measurements show activation energies ( E a ) of 0.34, 0.31 and 0.31 eV for the electrolytes with n (P 2 S5 )/ n (P 2 S5 + B 2 S3 ) of 0, 0.17 and 0.29, respectively (Fig. 1c and Supplementary Fig. 1). These GSEs all exhibit negligible electronic conductivities of 10 -10 -10 -11 S cm -1 (Extended Data Fig. 1f-i), which contributes to low self-discharge and potentially suppressed lithium dendrite penetration through the SE 33 .

Raman spectroscopy and 11 B, 7 Li and 31 P magic-angle spinning (MAS) nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy measurements were performed to understand the origin of the changes in ionic conductivity with varying P/B ratio, which is correlated with the local structure in the glass. As shown in the Raman spectra (Extended Data Fig. 1b), by adding P 2 S5 with n (P 2 S5 )/ n (P 2 S5 + B 2 S3 ) = 0.17, the bands of large [B 3 S6 ] and [B2 S5 ] moieties vanish 34 , whereas that of the [BS 4 ] moiety broadens 34 , along with the appearance of the Raman-sensitive [PS 4 ] band 34,35 . This implies that adding the secondary glass former P 2 S5 triggers formation of [PS 4 ], which, in turn, disrupts the large polyatomic [B 3 S6 ] and [B 2 S5 ] groups. The broadening of the [BS 4 ] moiety band is further corroborated by the 11 B NMR spectra (Fig. 1d). With n (P 2 S5 )/ n (P 2 S5 + B 2 S3 ) = 0.17, the peak around 0 ppm that corresponds to the [BS 4 ] moiety shifts to a higher frequency (from -2.88 ppm to -1.01 ppm) 36 , indicating a change from multi-bridged [BS 4 ] to mono-bridged [BS 4 ] (ref. 36). This provides evidence for fragmentation of the B-S network and formation of small, island-like, localized structures, which are less rigid, facilitating high Li + mobility. Furthermore, the 7 Li NMR spectra show that, by adding P2 S5 with n (P 2 S5 )/ n (P 2 S5 + B 2 S3 ) = 0.17, the peak corresponding to iodine-bound Li + (-4.4 ppm) 37 greatly diminishes, indicating better inclusion for the Li + /I -ions and less isolated ion pairs (Fig. 1e). This is presumed to be important for enabling surface diffusion of I -during the redox-mediating loop 38 , as discussed below. Furthermore, the shoulder peak corresponding to Li + solvated by non-bridging sulfur (0.50 and 0.17 ppm) 39 becomes a single peak at 0.22 ppm, indicating a less shielded nucleus 40 . For further discussions, we refer the reader to Extended Data Fig. 1.

## Fast-charging performance

Here we investigate the SSSRR kinetics by first evaluating the battery fast-charging capability using a carbon/sulfur/LBPSI composite cathode, a LBPSI separator and an In/InLi foil anode. The fast-charging performance was evaluated by charging the cell at various C rates and with a constant discharging rate of 1C at 30 °C. The cell with LBPSI n (P 2 S5 )/ n (P 2 S5 + B 2 S3 ) = 0.17 exhibits a high specific capacity of 1,497 mAh g -1 (areal capacity, 1.5 mAh cm -2 ) at a charging rate of 2C and maintains 784 mAh g -1 at a tenfold increased rate of 20C (Fig. 2a,b). Even at an ultrahigh charging rate of 35C (59 mA cm -2 ), the cell still achieves a high specific capacity of 447 mAh g -1 . At all charging rates, the cell shows well-defined, non-capacitive voltage profiles, demonstrating greatly promoted SSSRR kinetics (Fig. 2b and differential capacity plots in Extended Data Fig. 2a). Note that, at higher charging rates, the cell shows increased ohmic polarization owing to limited ion transport in the SE and increased reaction overpotential with the In/ InLi counter electrode (Extended Data Fig. 3a-f), thus higher-voltage cut-offs need to be applied. Notably, the cell at such rates (charged at 20C) sustains a specific capacity of about 700 mAh g -1 without noticeable capacity fading over long-term cycling (Fig. 2c). By contrast, the cell with Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl1.5 , although delivering a good specific capacity of 1,417 mAh g -1 when charged at 2C, retains only 223 mAh g -1 at 20C (Fig. 2a and Extended Data Fig. 2d,e). Further, the reversible redox behaviour shown by LBPSI (Extended Data Fig. 2f-h) is foundational to mediating the SSSRR and the fast-charging capability, as discussed below.

Furthermore, the cell with LBPSI shows unprecedented fast-charging capability at 60 °C. At a fixed discharging rate of 2C, it exhibits a high specific capacity of 1,361 mAh g -1 when charged at 10C, which slightly decreases to 1,162 and 815 mAh g -1 at 20C and 50C, respectively (Fig. 2d). Even at extreme charging rates of 100C and 150C, the cell still shows high specific capacities of 594 and 432 mAh g -1 , respectively, with well-defined, non-capacitive behaviour (Fig. 2e and Extended Data Fig. 2i). A cell charged at a rate of 100C sustains a long cycling without apparent capacity or voltage fading (Extended Data Fig. 3k,l). By contrast, the cell with Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 shows only 123 mAh g -1 when charged at 50C and delivers close to zero capacity at even higher rates (Fig. 2d,f and Extended Data Fig. 2j). The fast-charging performance of the ASSLSBs using LBPSI is therefore far superior to those using Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 . Given the similar ionic/electronic conductivities and particle sizes of the cathode composites with LBPSI and Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 (Extended Data Fig. 4 and Supplementary Fig. 2), this points to another mechanism that occurs with the LBPSI-based cathodes.

## Origin of ultrafast charging capability

The demonstrated ultrafast SSSRR is in strong contrast to the conventional perception of the sluggish solid-state reaction of electrodes with insulating active materials 1,3,4 . The interaction of active materials with the LBPSI electrolyte or its redox products should play an important role. To explore the origin of the ultrafast rate capability, we first constructed a cell using a LBPSI-carbon (LBPSI-C) composite, containing no sulfur, as the cathode. The electrode exhibits a specific capacity of 166 mAh g -1 LBPSI on the first charge with a potential of 2.7 V (versus Li + /Li) at 0.25 mA cm -2 and shows reversible capacity in the following discharge (Fig. 3a and Extended Data Fig. 5a,b). The reproducible voltage profiles indicate the presence of a highly reversible redox couple on the LBPSI surface (Fig. 3a and Extended Data Fig. 5a-c). The redox potential of this couple (2.7 V) is higher than that of the S/Li 2 S couple, which-in principle-provides a thermodynamic driving force to chemically oxidize Li 2 S. Indeed, at a charging rate of 0.1C, the sulfur cathode using the LBPSI electrolyte shows two voltage plateaus at 2.4 V and 2.7 V (Extended Data Fig. 5e,f), which we ascribe to the Li 2 S oxidation and surficial oxidation of LBPSI, respectively. By contrast, the Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl1.5 -carbon cell shows a large capacity loss during the second discharge, indicating irreversible damage to the electrolyte (Fig. 3b and Extended Data Fig. 5d).

To investigate the surficial oxidation products of LBPSI on cell charge, we conducted a series of spectroscopic studies. First, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) data (Extended Data Fig. 6) show the I 3d doublet signals at 618.8 eV (3d 5/2 energy) for the pristine LBPSI, representing anionic I -in the glass 41 . On charging the LBPSI-C cell to 3.2 V, an overall shift to higher binding energies is observed for the I 3d spectrum, suggesting the formation of oxidized iodine species (at 619.9 eV) on LBPSI oxidation 42 . Furthermore, the S 2p spectra indicate the formation of oxidized sulfur species (S 0 ) on charge 43 (Extended Data Fig. 6d). Oxidation of sulfur anions was also previously observed in argyrodite SEs 43,44 and we thus propose that the main difference between LBPSI and Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 lies in the reversible oxidation/reduction of iodine.

To further investigate the oxidation of iodine species, time-of-flight secondary-ion mass spectrometry (TOF-SIMS) was used because of its high sensitivity to low concentrations. On charge of the LBPSI-C, we observe a statistically significant increase of I 2 and I 3 -species, quantified as the intensity of I 2 -and I 3 -peaks normalized with that of I -(assuming most of I -remaining unaltered) (Fig. 3c,d and Supplementary Fig. 3). This confirms the oxidation product to be I 2 and I 3 -, with I 2 detected with higher intensities. After discharge, the amount of I 2 and I 3 -species decreases compared with the charged state, indicating reversible redox behaviour (Fig. 3c,d). We also observe the same trend of I 2 and

Fig. 2 | Fast-charging performance of ASSLSBs. a , Rate performance of cells using the different SEs at various charging rates (labelled) and a constant discharge rate of 1C at 30 °C. The cells were subjected to an activation process by charging at progressively increasing rates of 0.05-0.8C for six cycles before being charged at 2C (sulfur loading: 1.0 mg cm -2 ). The voltage profiles for the six cycles are shown in Extended Data Fig. 2b,c. b , Voltage profiles at different charging rates (as the focus of the study is on the cathode, for comparison between cells and with others reported in the literature, the cathode potential

I 3 -forming in a sulfur cathode with LBPSI on charging (Fig. 3e,f), thus clearly confirming that the redox of I --I 2 /I 3 -indeed occurs with LBPSI in the cell. 3D depth profiling further showed uniform distribution of I 2 -and I 3 -over a certain area of the charged cathode (Fig. 3g and Supplementary Fig. 3). The relatively low fraction of I 2 and I 3 -  compared with that of I -implies the prevalence of a surficial iodine oxidation (Fig. 3h). We also performed differential electrochemical mass spectrometry (DEMS) measurements on the cell using LBPSI. As shown in Fig. 3i, a clear surge of the signal with m / z = 127 is evident at a charge

is hereafter shown with respect to Li + /Li, assuming the In/InLi potential to be 0.62 V versus Li + /Li). c , Cycling stability at a charging rate of 20C of the ASSLSB with LBPSI electrolyte. d , Rate performance of cells using the different SEs at various charging rates (labelled) and a constant discharge rate of 2C at 60 °C. The cells were subjected to an activation process by charging at progressively increasing rates of 0.1-1C for several cycles (sulfur loading: 1.05 mg cm -2 ). e , f , Voltage profiles with charging rates from 5C to 150C at 60 °C for ASSLSBs with LBPSI ( e ) and Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 electrolyte ( f ).

voltage of 2.11 V versus In/InLi (that is, 2.73 V versus Li + /Li), which is attributed to I + , a fragment from the ionization of I 2 . The formation of I 2 is also confirmed by Raman spectroscopy, for which the LBPSI charged to 3.2 V shows a broad band at 100-200 cm -1 , corresponding to I 2 and I 3 -(further discussion in Extended Data Fig. 6).

From these observations, we propose that the LBPSI electrolyte functions as a surficial redox mediator for the SSSRR based on the reversible redox between I -(as on the LBPSI surface) and I 2 /I 3 -on charge, which revitalizes the otherwise infeasible reaction at the SE|Li 2 S two-phase

## Article

Fig. 3 | Electrochemical and spectroscopic studies of cells based on LBPSI at different states. a , b , Voltage profiles of the cell with LBPSI ( a ) and Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 ( b ) as the active material at a current density of 0.25 mA cm -2 (25 °C). The first cycle involves a discharge followed by charge, in which the initial discharge process delivers a small capacity. c , d , TOF-SIMS analysis results showing the I 2 -( c ) and I 3 -( d ) fragments for the LBPSI-C electrode at various states (pristine, 100% state of charge (SOC) and 100% depth of discharge (DOD)). e , f , TOF-SIMS analysis results showing the I 2 -( e ) and I 3 -( f ) fragments for the sulfur cathode

boundary. The charging reactions are proposed and schematically shown as follows:

- I. Oxidation of LBPSI (that is, I -on surface):

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

- II. Mediated chemical oxidation of Li 2 S (at two-phase boundaries):

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

III. Electrochemical oxidation of Li 2 S (at three-phase boundaries):

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Time (h)

with LBPSI. The data for box plots were obtained from five measurements at different spots on each sample. g , TOF-SIMS 3D representations of I 2 -and I 3 -in the fully charged sulfur cathode with LBPSI obtained by depth profiling. h , Scheme of the surficial I --I 2 /I 3 -redox-mediating mechanism for SSSRR that involves surface diffusion and redistribution of I 2 and I -. i , In situ gas analysis of a cell configured as In/InLi|LPSCl|LBPSI-C at 45 °C. a.u., arbitrary units; IQR, interquartile range.

Specifically, the charging process bears the co-oxidation of I -(on the LBPSI surface) and Li 2 S. At a high charging rate, at which the electrochemical Li 2 S oxidation poses a high overpotential, the I -on the surface of LBPSI-on contact with carbon (at the SE|C two-phase boundary)undergoes oxidation, as the LBPSI itself is a fast Li + conductor (reactions 1 and 2); thus, the LBPSI particle surface, where contacted with carbon, is rich in oxidized iodine species I 2 /I 3 -(schematically shown in Fig. 3h). The reaction scheme is supported by the observation of a new interface after the sulfur cell is charged to 2.80 V based on an in situ EIS measurement (discussed in Extended Data Fig. 5g,h). Because the measured redox potential of I --I 2 /I 3 -for LBPSI is higher than that of Li 2 S/S (2.7 V versus 2.4 V, discussed above), Li 2 S can, in principle, be chemically oxidized by the formed I 2 /I 3 -(reactions 3 and 4). The occurrence of this reaction is verified by the mixing of I 2 and Li 2 S in solution and in the solid state, both yielding a mixture of LiI and S (Extended Data Fig. 7). As I 2 has a high vapour pressure and diffuses very quickly 45 ,

we assume that I 2 can rapidly diffuse by means of the gas phase along pores and gaps and redistributes at the adjacent Li 2 S|SE two-phase boundaries, at which it chemically oxidizes Li 2 S (Fig. 3h). This is confirmed by an iodine contact experiment, which shows the diffusion of I 2 along the SE surface (Extended Data Fig. 7). As I 3 -is a product of I 2 reacting with I -on the SE surface, it may also form at such two-phase boundaries. Apparently, the Li 2 S|SE two-phase boundary is much more abundant than the SE|Li 2 S|C three-phase boundary. We propose that the re-formed I -after redox mediation can redistribute to adjacent Li 2 S|SE boundaries through surface diffusion 38 or its dynamic recombination with the glass SE matrix, so that it can repetitively participate in the redox mediation to complete the redox-mediation loop (Fig. 3h). Nevertheless, the electrochemical oxidation of Li 2 S still also occurs at the three-phase boundary (reaction 5).

Therefore, the LBPSI not only provides ion-conduction pathways but also generates a surficial I --I 2 /I 3 -couple in situ as a redox mediator that facilitates solid-to-solid Li 2 S oxidation at high charging rates

(leading to charge potentials greater than 2.7 V). Notably, this effect does not occur at low charging rates, at which the required potential is not reached and only occurs unidirectionally on charge. On discharge, LiI can serve as an ion-conducting facilitator in the cathode (Extended Data Fig. 8). This solid-solid surficial redox mediation is an apparent analogue to that observed in liquid-electrolyte-based Li-O 2 /S batteries 2,25-29,46,47 , but differs in the physical state of the redox-mediated species and the electrolytes (all-solid versus solid-liquid).

## Long-term cycling performance

Long-term cycling of ASSLSBs (discharged/charged with equivalent rates) based on the LBPSI GSE was evaluated next, with an areal capacity up to 8.9 mAh cm -2 at 25 °C. The cell using Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 undergoes fast capacity decay with only 74.0% retained after 100 cycles at 0.2C, indicating irreversible reactions (Fig. 4a and Extended Data Fig. 9a). By contrast, the cell based on LBPSI delivers a high specific capacity

of 1,375 mAh g -1 , with more than 91.7% retained after 500 cycles, and a close-to-unity average Coulomb efficiency (Fig. 4a). The voltage profiles over 500 cycles show that only minor chemical/mechanical degradation occurs (Extended Data Fig. 9b). This is attributed to the high reversibility of reactions mediated by LBPSI, resulting in little dead S/Li 2 S and marginal SE degradation, and the presumably high ductility of the GSE 31 that well accommodates active material breathing during cycling.

The cells based on LBPSI also show ultrastable cycling performance at 25 °C (Fig. 4b-d). At a rate of 2C, the cell delivers a high specific capacity of 1,105 mAh g -1 , with 81.4% capacity retention over 5,000 cycles (Fig. 4b and Extended Data Fig. 9c). Notably, the cell exhibits a specific capacity of 823 mAh g -1 at 5C (9.2 mA cm -2 ), with 80.2% retention over 25,000 cycles (Fig. 4c and Extended Data Fig. 9d). By contrast, the cell based on Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 shows rapid capacity fade to 400 mAh g -1 and retains only 81 mAh g -1 after 10,000 cycles at 5C (Fig. 4c and Extended Data Fig. 9e). The long-term stability over 25,000 cycles is, to our knowledge, unprecedented in the field of Li-S batteries (Supplementary Table 1) and thus highlights the potential of reaction engineering for the development of ASSLSBs. Further long-term cycling data of the cell with LBPSI are shown in Extended Data Fig. 9g,h. Operando cell-stacking-pressure measurements further indicate a more profound buffering of the microscopic volume change in the case of LBPSI (Extended Data Fig. 9f).

We further show that even cells with high sulfur loadings demonstrate excellent performance when using LBPSI. A cell with a sulfur loading of 3.0 mg cm -2 delivers a high specific capacity of 1,004 mAh g -1 (3.0 mAh cm -2 ) at a rate of 1C (5.0 mA cm -2 ) and retains 810 mAh g -1 after 1,000 cycles (Fig. 4d and Extended Data Fig. 10a). Furthermore, the cell with a high sulfur fraction of 45 wt% in the cathode (35 wt% SE and 20 wt% carbon) exhibits a specific capacity of 1,049 mAh g -1 (2.0 mAh cm -2 ) and shows virtually negligible fading over 200 cycles (Fig. 4e and Extended Data Fig. 10b). Likewise, the cell with a sulfur loading of 6.3 mg cm -2 shows a high specific capacity of 1,413 mAh g -1 (8.9 mAh cm -2 ) at 0.1C (1.1 mA cm -2 ) and retains 85.3% after 100 cycles (Extended Data Fig. 10c,d).

The cells based on LBPSI also show good cycling stability at an elevated temperature of 60 °C. As evident, the cell in Fig. 5a,b stabilizes at a specific capacity of 1,070 mAh g -1 at 10C (17.4 mA cm -2 ) with little capacity fade and highly reproducible voltage profiles for approximately 3,500 cycles. At 15C (26.1 mA cm -2 ), the cell delivers a specific capacity of 1,110 mAh g -1 over 1,000 cycles and retains 979 mAh g -1 after 10,000 cycles (88.2% of the capacity at the 1,000th cycle) (Fig. 5c and Extended Data Fig. 10e,f). By contrast, the cell with Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 quickly deteriorated, with almost zero capacity after several hundred cycles, indicating severe, electrolyte-related parasitic side reactions at 60 °C (Fig. 5c and Extended Data Fig. 10g).

## Outlook

The research on ASSLSBs faces not only the interfacial challenges in general (as with all all-solid-state lithium batteries) but also the sluggish SSSRR and large volume change. Our electrochemical data show that it is in fact possible to promote the cathode reaction by engineering the SE to be used such that it incorporates a redox-mediating function. This is achieved by designing an electrolyte that itself is redox active and, as such, able to mediate the oxidation of Li 2 S at higher C rates. The strategy essentially resolves the all-solid three-phase boundary challenge by promoting charge transfer at the SE|Li 2 S two-phase boundary, enabling fast SSSRR reactions and unprecedented fast-charging capabilities. The high S/Li 2 S conversion efficiency enables an excellent cycling stability over 25,000 cycles. Future work should focus on cathode structure engineering to improve density and areal loading and matching the sulfur cathode with high-areal-capacity anodes to expedite the development of ASSLSBs. Overall, the strategy presented

may unlock other solid-state conversion chemistries that, up to now, remain elusive owing to sluggish kinetics and poor reversibility.

## Online content

Any methods, additional references, Nature Portfolio reporting summaries, source data, extended data, supplementary information, acknowledgements, peer review information; details of author contributions and competing interests; and statements of data and code availability are available at https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-024-08298-9.

1. Han, F. et al. High-performance all-solid-state lithium-sulfur battery enabled by a mixed-conductive Li2S nanocomposite. Nano Lett. 16 , 4521-4527 (2016).
2. Gao, X. et al. All-solid-state lithium-sulfur batteries enhanced by redox mediators. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 143 , 18188-18195 (2021).
3. Yan, H. et al. In situ generated Li 2 S-C nanocomposite for high-capacity and long-life all-solid-state lithium sulfur batteries with ultrahigh areal mass loading. Nano Lett. 19 , 3280-3287 (2019).
4. Wang, D. et al. Realizing high-capacity all-solid-state lithium-sulfur batteries using a low-density inorganic solid-state electrolyte. Nat. Commun. 14 , 1895 (2023).
5. Kim, J. T . et al. Manipulating Li 2 S2 /Li 2 S mixed discharge products of all-solid-state lithium sulfur batteries for improved cycle life. Nat. Commun. 14 , 6404 (2023).
6. Kato, Y. et al. High-power all-solid-state batteries using sulfide superionic conductors. Nat. Energy 1 , 16030 (2016).
7. Janek, J. &amp; Zeier, W. G. A solid future for battery development. Nat. Energy 1 , 16141 (2016).
8. Ning, Z. et al. Dendrite initiation and propagation in lithium metal solid-state batteries. Nature 618 , 287-293 (2023).
9. Wan, H., Wang, Z., Zhang, W., He, X. &amp; Wang, C. Interface design for all-solid-state lithium batteries. Nature 623 , 739-744 (2023).
10. Li, Y . et al. A lithium superionic conductor for millimeter-thick battery electrode. Science 381 , 50-53 (2023).
11. Han, F. et al. High electronic conductivity as the origin of lithium dendrite formation within solid electrolytes. Nat. Energy 4 , 187-196 (2019).
12. Yin, Y.-C. et al. A LaCl 3 -based lithium superionic conductor compatible with lithium metal. Nature 616 , 77-83 (2023).
13. Tan, D. H. S. et al. Carbon-free high-loading silicon anodes enabled by sulfide solid electrolytes. Science 373 , 1494-1499 (2021).
14. Kochetkov, I. et al. Different interfacial reactivity of lithium metal chloride electrolytes with high voltage cathodes determines solid-state battery performance. Energy Environ. Sci. 15 , 3933-3944 (2022).
15. Zuo, T. et al. A mechanistic investigation of the Li 10 GeP2S12 |LiNi 1-x-y CoxMnyO2 interface stability in all-solid-state lithium batteries. Nat. Commun. 12 , 6669 (2021).
16. Wang, L. et al. High-energy all-solid-state lithium batteries enabled by Co-free LiNiO 2 cathodes with robust outside-in structures. Nat. Nanotechnol. 19 , 208-218 (2024).
17. Wang, S. et al. Thermal stability between sulfide solid electrolytes and oxide cathode. ACS Nano 16 , 16158-16176 (2022).
18. Rui, X. et al. Distinct thermal runaway mechanisms of sulfide-based all-solid-state batteries. Energy Environ. Sci. 16 , 3552-3563 (2023).
19. Pang, Q., Liang, X., Kwok, C. Y. &amp; Nazar, L. F. Advances in lithium-sulfur batteries based on multifunctional cathodes and electrolytes. Nat. Energy 1 , 16132 (2016).
20. Hayashi, A., Ohtsubo, R., Ohtomo, T., Mizuno, F. &amp; Tatsumisago, M. All-solid-state rechargeable lithium batteries with Li 2 S as a positive electrode material. J. Power Sources 183 , 422-426 (2008).
21. Kwok, C. Y., Xu, S., Kochetkov, I., Zhou, L. &amp; Nazar, L. F. High-performance all-solid-state Li 2 S batteries using an interfacial redox mediator. Energy Environ. Sci. 16 , 610-618 (2023).
22. Pan, H. et al. Carbon-free and binder-free Li-Al alloy anode enabling an all-solid-state Li-S battery with high energy and stability. Sci. Adv. 8 , eabn4372 (2022).
23. Hakari, T., Hayashi, A. &amp; Tatsumisago, M. Li 2 S-based solid solutions as positive electrodes with full utilization and superlong cycle life in all-solid-state Li/S batteries. Adv. Sustain. Syst. 1 , 1700017 (2017).
24. Pang, Q. et al. Fast-charging aluminium-chalcogen batteries resistant to dendritic shorting. Nature 608 , 704-711 (2022).
25. Meini, S., Elazari, R., Rosenman, A., Garsuch, A. &amp; Aurbach, D. The use of redox mediators for enhancing utilization of Li 2 S cathodes for advanced Li-S battery systems. J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 5 , 915-918 (2014).
26. Liu, T . et al. Cycling Li-O 2 batteries via LiOH formation and decomposition. Science 350 , 530-533 (2015).
27. Ren, Y. X., Zhao, T. S., Liu, M., Zeng, Y . K. &amp; Jiang, H. R. A self-cleaning Li-S battery enabled by a bifunctional redox mediator. J. Power Sources 361 , 203-210 (2017).
28. Park, J. B., Lee, S. H., Jung, H. G., Aurbach, D. &amp; Sun, Y . K. Redox mediators for Li-O 2 batteries: status and perspectives. Adv. Mater. 30 , 1704162 (2018).
29. Lim, H. D. et al. Rational design of redox mediators for advanced Li-O 2 batteries. Nat. Energy 1 , 16066 (2016).
30. Menetrier, M., Hojjaji, A., Estournes, C. &amp; Levasseur, A. Ionic conduction in the B 2 S3-Li 2 S glass system. Solid State Ion. 48 , 325-330 (1991).
31. Chi, X. et al. An electrochemically stable homogeneous glassy electrolyte formed at room temperature for all-solid-state sodium batteries. Nat. Commun. 13 , 2854 (2022).
32. Wada, H., Menetrier, M., Levasseur, A. &amp; Hagenmuller, P. Preparation and ionic conductivity of new B 2 S3-Li 2 S-LiI glasses. Mater. Res. Bull. 18 , 189-193 (1983).
33. Liu, X. et al. Local electronic structure variation resulting in Li 'filament' formation within solid electrolytes. Nat. Mater. 20 , 1485-1490 (2021).
34. Larink, D., Eckert, H. &amp; Martin, S. W. Structure and ionic conductivity in the mixed-network former chalcogenide glass system [Na 2 S] 2/3 [(B 2 S3) x (P 2 S5) 1x ] 1/3 . J. Phys. Chem. C 116 , 22698-22710 (2012).
35. Ohara, K. et al. Structural and electronic features of binary Li 2 S-P2 S5 glasses. Sci. Rep. 6 , 21302 (2016).
36. Kaup, K. et al. A lithium oxythioborosilicate solid electrolyte glass with superionic conductivity. Adv. Energy Mater. 10 , 1902783 (2020).
37. Feng, X. et al. Synthesis and characterizations of highly conductive and stable electrolyte Li 10 P3 S12 I. Energy Storage Mater. 22 , 397-401 (2019).
38. Imanaka, N., Misran, M. R. I. B. &amp; Nunotani, N. Evidence for enormous iodide anion migration in lanthanum oxyiodide-based solid. Sci. Adv. 7 , eabh0812 (2021).
39. Vinatier, P., Ménétrier, M. &amp; Levasseur, A. Aggregation of the doping salt in B 2 S3-Li 2 S-LiI glasses, effect on the dynamical properties. Solid State Ion. 116 , 35-45 (1999).
40. See, K. A. et al. Effect of hydrofluoroether cosolvent addition on Li solvation in acetonitrile-based solvate electrolytes and its influence on S reduction in a Li-S Battery. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 8 , 34360-34371 (2016).
41. Morgan, W. E., Wazer, J. R. &amp; Stec, W. J. Inner-orbital photoelectron spectroscopy of the alkali metal halides, perchlorates, phosphates, and pyrophosphates. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 95 , 751-755 (1973).
42. Dillard, J. G. et al. An X-ray photoelectron and Auger electron spectroscopic study of the adsorption of molecular iodine on uranium metal and uranium dioxide. J. Phys. Chem. 88 , 4104-4111 (1984).
43. Wang, S. et al. Lithium argyrodite as solid electrolyte and cathode precursor for solid-state batteries with long cycle life. Adv. Energy Mater. 11 , 2101370 (2021).
44. Schwietert, T. K. et al. Clarifying the relationship between redox activity and electrochemical stability in solid electrolytes. Nat. Mater. 19 , 428-435 (2020).
45. Kerner, R. A. et al. Organic hole transport material ionization potential dictates diffusion kinetics of iodine species in halide perovskite devices. ACS Energy Lett. 6 , 501-508 (2021).
46. Ahn, S. et al. Why charging Li-air batteries with current low-voltage mediators is slow and singlet oxygen does not explain degradation. Nat. Chem. 15 , 1022-1029 (2023).
47. Gerber, L. C. H. et al. Three-dimensional growth of Li 2 S in lithium-sulfur batteries promoted by a redox mediator. Nano Lett. 16 , 549-554 (2016).

Publisher's note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.

Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.

- © The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited 2025

## Article Methods

## SE syntheses

GSEs of the Li2S-B2S3-P2S5-LiI family were synthesized by the melt-quenching method. The compositions in mole ( n ) are 30Li2S25B2S3 -45LiIa P2 S5 , with a = 0 (denoted as n (P 2 S5 )/ n (P 2 S5 + B 2 S3 ) = 0), 3 (denoted as n (P2 S5 )/ n (P2 S5 + B 2 S3 ) = 0.11), 5 (denoted as n (P2 S5 )/ n (P2 S5 + B 2 S3 ) = 0.17), 10 (denoted as n (P2 S5 )/ n (P2 S5 + B 2 S3 ) = 0.29), 25 (denoted as n (P 2 S5 )/ n (P 2 S5 + B 2 S3 ) = 0.50), 50 (denoted as n (P 2 S5 )/ n (P2 S5 + B 2 S3 ) = 0.67), 75 (denoted as n (P2 S5 )/ n (P2 S5 + B 2 S3 ) = 0.75) and 100 (denoted as n (P 2 S5 )/ n (P 2 S5 + B 2 S3 ) = 0.80) (Fig. 1b). Stoichiometric amounts of Li 2 S (Alfa Aesar, 99.9%), B (Macklin, 99.9%), sulfur (Alfa Aesar, 99%), LiI (Ourchem, 99.9%) and P 2S5 (Innochem, 99%) were ground together using an agate mortar in an Ar-filled glovebox ( p (O2)/ p &lt; 0.01 ppm, p (H2O)/ p &lt; 0.01 ppm). The precursor mixture was pelletized and placed in a glassy carbon crucible, then positioned inside a quartz tube. The quartz tube was sealed under vacuum, placed inside a muffle furnace and maintained at a temperature of 500 °C for 10 h. Afterwards, the temperature was increased to 800 °C for a further 20 h. Finally, the molten material was rapidly cooled by quenching in ice water, resulting in the formation of a glass. The glass-phase electrolyte was crushed and ground into powder for further characterization and battery assembly.

The Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 electrolyte was synthesized via a solid-state route through Ar-protected ball-milling and subsequent sintering. Stoichiometric amounts of Li 2 S (Alfa Aesar, 99.9%), P 2 S5 (Innochem, 99%) and LiCl (Alfa Aesar, 99%) were ball-milled in a planetary ball mill (MSK-SFM-1, Kejing) at 500 rpm for 10 h with zirconia balls with a zirconia-to-material weight ratio of 20:1. Then, the ball-milled material was pelletized and positioned inside a quartz tube. The quartz tube was sealed under vacuum and sintered at 500 °C for 15 h before natural cooling to room temperature. The synthesized sample was ground into powder before being used. The ion conductivity (25 °C) is about 7.5 mS cm -1 .

The Li 3 PS4 and 70Li 3 PS4·30LiI electrolytes were synthesized via the solid-state route through Ar-protected ball-milling and subsequent sintering. Stoichiometric amounts of Li 2 S (Alfa Aesar, 99.9%) and P 2 S5 (Innochem, 99%) (and LiI (Ourchem, 99.9%) for 70Li 3 PS4·30LiI) were ball-milled at 500 rpm for 10 h. The milled product was sealed under vacuum in the quartz tube and sintered at 250 °C for 3 h before natural cooling to room temperature.

## Material characterizations

The samples for measurements were prepared in an Ar-filled glovebox. XRD analyses of the synthesized electrolyte powders were performed using a Rigaku MiniFlex600 X-ray diffractometer with Cu K α radiation ( λ = 1.5418 Å). Powder was placed in the sample holder and sealed by Kapton film to avoid contact with air and moisture. Diffraction data were collected with a step width of 0.01° over a 2 θ range of 10-70°. Raman spectra were recorded on a Renishaw Raman microscope using a 532-nm laser. The system was calibrated by the Raman peak of Si. The sample was placed in the sample holder and sealed by Kapton film to avoid contact with air and moisture. The charged cathode was retrieved from the In/InLi|LBPSI|LBPSI-C cell for the ex situ Raman study. The sample of (I 2 +LiI)-BM (I 2 /LiI-milled product) for Raman measurements was obtained through ball-milling stoichiometric amounts of LiI (Ourchem, 99.9%) and I 2 (Aladdin, 99.9%) with molar ratio of 1:1 at 500 rpm for 10 h. The solid-state NMR measurements were performed on a 600-MHz Bruker Avance III HD spectrometer for 7 Li, 11 B and 31 P. XPS measurements were performed using an AXIS Supra instrument (Kratos Analytical) with an Al K α (1,486.7 eV) quartz monochromator source. For the ex situ XPS study, the cathodes of In/InLi|LBPSI|LBPSI-C cells (before and after charging/discharging) were taken out of the cell. All of the samples were transferred with an inert gas sample-transfer device to avoid air and moisture exposure. The spectra were processed using CasaXPS software, in which all data were calibrated with respect to the signal of adventitious carbon at 284.6 eV. The morphology and the corresponding energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) mapping of electrolytes and the sulfur electrodes was obtained using a field-emission scanning electron microscope (Regulus8220, Hitachi).

## Ex situ XANES measurements

The S K-edge X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) experiments were carried out at the 4B7A beamline of the Beijing Synchrotron Radiation Facility (BSRF) in China, using a Si (111) crystal monochromator. The XANES data were collected in fluorescence mode. Electrodes and the reference materials were sealed by Kapton film to avoid contact with air and moisture. Athena software was used to calibrate, align and normalize the XANES spectra 48 .

## TOF-SIMS analyses

TOF-SIMS surface characterization was done on a M6 Hybrid SIMS instrument (IONTOF). Cycled sulfur cathodes fitted with LBPSI electrolyte and the cathode using LBPSI as the active material without sulfur were compared with pristine (uncycled) cathodes. Surface measurements were performed in spectrometry mode (mass resolution m / ∆ m ≥ 7,000@ m / z = 31.97 (S -)). Using Bi 3 + ions with an energy of 30 keV as primary ion species (PI current = 0.03 pA), areas of 100 × 100 μm 2 were analysed with 128 × 128 pixels in sawtooth raster mode. After reaching a primary ion dose of 1.0 × 10 11 ions per cm 2 (dose density limit), the measurements were stopped to achieve comparable conditions. Five mass spectra for each sample were recorded in negative ion mode at different locations on the surface. For the depth profiling of the fully charged sulfur cathode fitted with LBPSI, 200 analysis scans were recorded with the above conditions and primary ion doses of 0.33 × 10 11 ions per cm 2 per scan and 1.467 s sputter steps (with a 10 keV Ar2000 + gas cluster ion beam, sputter current = 10 nA) in between. All samples were attached to non-conductive adhesive tape and transferred to the SIMS instrument using the Leica EM VCT500 shuttle (Leica Microsystems). Charge compensation during the measurements was achieved with an electron flood gun. Data evaluation was carried out with SurfaceLab 7.3 software (IONTOF).

## Electrochemical measurements

The ionic conductivity was measured by EIS using a BioLogic SP-200 electrochemical working station, with an amplitude of 10 mV in the frequency range 7 MHz to 100 mHz. The SE powder was placed into a PEEK cylinder with a diameter of 10 mm. Two Ti rods were placed on opposite sides of the PEEK cylinder to create a pellet by cold pressing at 320 MPa for 3 min. Then, the cell was placed into a custom-made stainless-steel casing with a pressure of about 84 MPa for the EIS measurements. To obtain the activation energy E a , the cell was placed in an oven and the impedance was measured at temperatures ranging from -40 °C to 60 °C. E a was evaluated using the equation σT = σ 0exp(E a / k B T ), in which σ is the ionic conductivity, σ 0 is the pre-exponential factor, T is the absolute temperature and k B represents the Boltzmann constant. The electronic conductivity of SEs and different sulfur cathodes was obtained by measuring the electron resistance with an ion-blocking cell configuration of Ti|sample|Ti through the direct current (DC) polarization method. A constant voltage was set to 1 V and held for 20 h to ensure that the cell polarization reaches a stationary state for the Ti|SE|Ti configuration. For the Ti|sulfur electrode|Ti configuration, a constant voltage of 0.1 V was applied and held for 5 h. The resistance was calculated by Ohm's law. The ionic conductivity of the sulfur cathodes was obtained by measuring the total ionic resistance with an electron-blocking configuration of Ti|Cu|In/InLi|SE|sulfur electrode|SE|In/InLi|Cu|Ti (ref. 21). A constant voltage of 0.5 V was applied for 2 h to allow the cell polarization to reach equilibrium. Note that the resistance values here include the resistance from the sulfur electrode, the SE layer and the In/InLi electrode. To subtract the resistance contributions from the SE and In/InLi layers, the impedance of a symmetric cell Ti|Cu|In/InLi|SE|In/

InLi|Cu|Ti was measured and the impedance data were fitted with an equivalent circuit model. The true ionic resistance of the sulfur electrode with the electron-blocking condition is obtained after subtracting the contributions of SE and In/InLi electrode. Cyclic voltammetry (CV) measurements of the cell In/InLi|LBPSI|LBPSI-C were conducted at room temperature with a Gamry Interface 1010E electrochemical workstation at a scan rate of 0.1 mV s -1 .

## EIS measurements as function of state of charge

In situ EIS measurements were performed on the ASSLSB fitted with LBPSI electrolyte at different states of charge/discharge (sulfur loading of 1.1 mg cm -2 ) at room temperature. Specifically, a current pulse of 0.1C was applied to the specified voltage, followed by 15 min open-circuit rest, after which the EIS was measured; this was repeated until the completion of discharge/charge. The frequency was scanned over the range spanning 7 MHz to 100 mHz with an alternating voltage amplitude of 10 mV.

## All-solid-state cell fabrication

The sulfur powder and Ketjen Black (KB) were mixed (75:25, wt:wt) by grinding and then thermally annealed at 155 °C for 10 h to obtain the S/KB composite. The cathodes for ASSLSBs with a total sulfur fraction of 30 wt% were then prepared by ball-milling the S/KB composite, Super P carbon and LBPSI SE with a weight ratio of 4:1:5 and the cathodes with a total sulfur fraction of 45 wt% were prepared with a S/KB composite (75:25, wt:wt), Super P and LBPSI weight ratio of 6:0.5:3.5. For assembling the ASSLSB, approximately 80 mg of LBPSI powder was placed into a PEEK cylinder and pressed at 128 MPa for 1 min (10 mm diameter) as the SE layer and then the cathode composite with targeted areal loading was evenly spread and pressed under 320 MPa for 3 min. Onto the other side of the pellet, a thin indium foil (9 mm diameter, 99.99%, about 0.2 mm thickness) was attached and then a thin Li foil (7 mm diameter, about 0.1 mm thickness) was placed over the indium foil. The cell was placed into a custom-made stainless-steel casing with a stacking pressure of about 64 MPa. The assembly of ASSLSBs using Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 electrolyte remained the same, except the replacement of the LBPSI by Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 in the cathode and the electrolyte layer (that is, the cathode with a S/KB composite:Super P carbon:Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 weight ratio of 4:1:5). The assembly of ASSLSBs using Li 3 PS4 or 70Li 3 PS4·30LiI electrolyte remained the same. The cell was placed in an oven at specified temperatures during cycling. The cells were subjected to an activation process by charging at progressively increasing rates for several cycles before rate-capability testing to facilitate particle rearrangement for better solid-solid contact within the cathode. The specific capacity of the ASSLSB was calculated on the basis of the mass of sulfur. Current densities across the cells were calculated according to 1C = 1,672 mA g -1 . The areal current density for a cell with a sulfur loading of 1.05 mg cm -2 at the cathode (the ASSLSB fitted with LBPSI electrolyte in Fig. 2e) is 8.8, 17.6, 35.1, 52.7, 87.8, 140.4, 175.6, 210.7 and 263.3 mA cm -2 for the rates of 5C, 10C, 20C, 30C, 50C, 80C, 100C, 120C and 150C, respectively. For the cells using the SE as the active material in the cathode (no sulfur contained), the SE-C cathode powder was prepared by ball-milling 80 wt% of LBPSI or Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 and 20 wt% Super P carbon. For preparation of the In/InLi symmetric cells, roughly 120 mg of LBPSI powder was placed into a PEEK cylinder and pressed at 128 MPa for 1 min (10 mm diameter) as the SE layer, and then on each side of the electrolyte a thin indium foil (9 mm diameter, 99.99%, about 0.2 mm thickness) and a thin Li foil (7 mm diameter, about 0.1 mm thickness) were attached. The symmetric cell was placed into a custom-made stainless-steel casing with a stacking pressure of approximately 21 MPa. The customized three-electrode cell was configured as In/InLi|LBPSI|S using In/InLi anode, sulfur cathode and a Li wire as the reference electrode. A total of about 150 mg LBPSI electrolyte was used. The Li wire reference electrode was buried in the electrolyte separator with moderate pressing to maintain the integrity of the electrolyte separator and prevent premature short-circuiting of the cell. To better isolate the polarization from the In/InLi negative electrode (that is, reduce the impact of electrolyte separator ohmic polarization on the potential of the LiIn electrode), the Li reference electrode was positioned close to the In/InLi anode.

## Operando pressure measurements

The dynamic evolution of operation pressure for the two all-solid-state Li-S cells prepared with LBPSI and Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 electrolyte was measured by an in-house-made solid-state module configured with a high-precision pressure meter. The cells were assembled using sulfur cathodes (sulfur loading of about 1 mg cm -2 ) and In/InLi counter electrode with the respective SEs. The cells were discharged and charged with a rate of 0.2C at 30 °C.

## DEMS measurements

For DEMS measurement, the cell preparation was similar to the electrochemical testing mentioned above. First, 100 mg of Li 6 PS5 Cl (denoted as LPSCl, NEI Corporation) was densified under 0.5 tons to form the separator layer in a customized PEEK ring designed for the set-up. The LBPSI-C (Super P) cathode composite (weight ratio 70:30) with a mass loading of approximately 10 mg was placed on one side of the separator layer. An aluminium mesh (8 mm in diameter) was placed on top and all components were pressed together at 435 MPa to prepare the working electrode. The counter electrode, an In/InLi electrode, was assembled by stacking indium foil (8 mm diameter, 100 μm thickness, Thermo Scientific) and lithium foil (6 mm diameter, 50 μm thickness, Albemarle Germany) sequentially underneath the separator layer. The pellet contained in the PEEK ring was then transferred into the DEMS set-up. Before placing the current collectors, a stainless-steel mesh (9 mm diameter) was positioned on top of the cathode layer to enhance the electronic conductivity. After closing the cell with the current collectors, electrochemical cycling was conducted using a BioLogic VSP-300 potentiostat. The potential range was set between 0.8 and 2.4 V versus In/InLi (equivalent to 1.42-3.02 V versus Li + /Li) and galvanostatic cycling was performed at a 0.05C rate. Before cycling, a 3-h rest period was implemented to stabilize the cell and ensure proper background for the mass spectrometer. The testing temperature was maintained at 45 °C, with helium as the carrier gas flowing through the DEMS cell at a controlled rate of 2.5 ml min -1 . For further gas analysis, an OmniStar GSD 320 O2 (Pfeiffer Vacuum) was used. A more detailed description of the DEMS set-up and measurement principles can be found in the literature 49,50 . Owing to weak signal intensity, the recorded signal current was smoothed within a 30-40-data-point range using a Savitzky-Golay filter (polynomial of the second order), followed by baseline correction.

## Data availability

The datasets analysed and generated during the course of this study are included in the paper and the Supplementary information.

48. Ravel, B. &amp; Newville, M. ATHENA, ARTEMIS, HEPHAESTUS: data analysis for X-ray absorption spectroscopy using IFEFFIT. J. Synchrotron Radiat. 12 , 537-541 (2005).
49. Strauss, F. et al. Gas evolution in lithium-ion batteries: solid versus liquid electrolyte. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 12 , 20462-20468 (2020).
50. Teo, J. H. et al. Design-of-experiments-guided optimization of slurry-cast cathodes for solid-state batteries. Cell Rep. Phys. Sci. 2 , 100465 (2021).
51. Zhou, L. et al. Solvent-engineered design of argyrodite Li 6 PS5X (X = Cl, Br, I) solid electrolytes with high ionic conductivity. ACS Energy Lett. 4 , 265-270 (2019).
52. Adeli, P. et al. Boosting solid-state diffusivity and conductivity in lithium superionic argyrodites by halide substitution. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 58 , 8681-8686 (2019).
53. Royle, M., Cho, J. &amp; Martin, S. W. Raman spectroscopy studies of x Na2S+(1x )B 2 S3 glasses and polycrystals. J. Non-Cryst. Solids 279 , 97-109 (2001).
54. Bischoff, C., Schuller, K., Haynes, M. &amp; Martin, S. W. Structural investigations of yNa2S+(1-y)PS5/2 glasses using Raman and infrared spectroscopies. J. Non Cryst. Solids 358 , 3216-3222 (2012).
55. Kudu, O. U. et al. A review of structural properties and synthesis methods of solid electrolyte materials in the Li 2 S-P2S5 binary system. J. Power Sources 407 , 31-43 (2018).

## Article

56. Hertle, J. et al. Miniaturization of reference electrodes for solid-state lithium-ion batteries. J. Electrochem. Soc. 170 , 040519 (2023).
57. Lu, Y., Zhao, C.-Z., Huang, J.-Q. &amp; Zhang, Q. The timescale identification decoupling complicated kinetic processes in lithium batteries. Joule 6 , 1172-1198 (2022).
58. Cao, D., Sun, X., Li, F., Bak, S.-M. &amp; Ji, T . Understanding electrochemical reaction mechanisms of sulphur in all-solid-state batteries through operando and theoretical studies. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 62 , e202302363 (2023).
59. Alvarez, L. et al. High-pressure behavior of polyiodides confined into single-walled carbon nanotubes: a Raman study. Phys. Rev. B 82 , 205403 (2010).
60. Tan, D. H. S. et al. Elucidating reversible electrochemical redox of Li 6 PS5Cl solid electrolyte. ACS Energy Lett. 4 , 2418-2427 (2019).
61. Koerver, R. et al. Capacity fade in solid-state batteries: interphase formation and chemomechanical processes in nickel-rich layered oxide cathodes and lithium thiophosphate solid electrolytes. Chem. Mater. 29 , 5574-5582 (2017).
62. Kimura, T. et al. Stabilizing high-temperature α-Li 3 PS4 by rapidly heating the glass. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 145 , 14466-14474 (2023).
63. Sedlmaier, S. J. et al. Li 4 PS4I: a Li + superionic conductor synthesized by a solvent-based soft chemistry approach. Chem. Mater. 29 , 1830-1835 (2017).

Acknowledgements This work was supported by the National Key R&amp;D Program of China (grant no. 2021YFB2500200), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC) (grant nos. 92372115, 22075002). We are also grateful for the support from the Beijing Natural Science Foundation (no. Z220020) and NSFC (52103329, 22409006 and 52203347). We acknowledge the financing from BMBF (Bundesministerium für Bildung und Forschung,

Germany) within the project SOLIS (03XP0395D). We thank the beamline station 4B7A at the Beijing Synchrotron Radiation Facility (BSRF) for the XANES measurements. We appreciate T. L. Song (Experimental Center of Advanced Materials, School of Materials Science &amp; Engineering, Beijing Institute of Technology) for the contribution to the discussion of the TOF-SIMS study.

Author contributions H.S. and Q.P. conceived the concept and designed the experiments. H.S. conducted the materials synthesis. H.S. carried out the characterizations and electrochemical measurements, with the help of X.L., K.S., X.H., J.M., Y.Liu, M.H. and Y.Li. D.J. assisted in performing the Raman measurements. K.M., T.W. and Y.Y. performed the TOF-SIMS analyses and discussed other spectroscopy data under the supervision of J.J. R.Z. and P.H. conducted the DEMS measurements and data analyses under the supervision of T.B. All authors participated in the discussion of the results and contributed to the data analysis. H.S., Q.P., K.M., T .B. and J.J. wrote the manuscript, with contributions from all authors. Q.P. supervised the work.

Competing interests The authors declare no competing interests.

## Additional information

Supplementary information The online version contains supplementary material available at https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-024-08298-9.

Correspondence and requests for materials should be addressed to Quanquan Pang. Peer review information Nature thanks Rezan Demir Çakan, Kentaro Yamamoto and the other, anonymous, reviewer(s) for their contribution to the peer review of this work.

Reprints and permissions information is available at http://www.nature.com/reprints.

Extended Data Fig. 1 | See next page for caption.

## Article

Extended Data Fig. 1 | Structural characterizations and physicochemical properties of the LBPSI GSEs (the ratio x is defined as n (P2 S5 )/ n (P2 S5 + B 2 S3 )). a , XRD patterns for the LBPSI electrolytes with x of 0, 0.11, 0.17, 0.29, 0.50, 0.67, 0.75 and 0.80. b , Raman spectra of LBPSI electrolytes with x from 0 to 0.80. c , Enlarged view focused on the [P m S n ] clusters. d , Schematic drawing of the clusters with their characteristic Raman shift. e , 31 P MAS NMR spectra of LBPSI electrolytes with x of 0.17 and 0.29. f -h , DC polarization curves with an ionblocking cell configuration of Ti|electrolyte|Ti for the three LBPSI electrolytes with x of 0 ( f ), 0.17 ( g ) and 0.29 ( h ). The thicknesses of the pellets during measurement for the three electrolytes are 0.028 cm, 0.022 cm and 0.023 cm, respectively. The measurements were conducted at 25 °C. i , The trend of electron conductivities obtained from DC polarization curves and the corresponding Ea values. The electronic conductivities for the three LBPSI electrolytes with x of 0, 0.17 and 0.29 are 6.4 × 10 -10 S cm -1 , 2.8 × 10 -11 S cm -1 and 2.8 × 10 -10 S cm -1 , respectively. It is clear that, by fine-tuning the P/B ratio in the sulfide glass, the electronic conductivity of the electrolytes can be reduced. The values are much lower than the typical electron conductivity of argyrodite Li 6 PS5Cl and Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 (typically measured to be 10 -8 -10 -9 S cm -1 ) 51,52 , which may lead to low self-discharge in a cell. Discussions on the evolution of local clustering structures: on the basis of the XRD patterns ( a ), for the P 2 S5 -free electrolyte ( x = 0), a crystalline LiI phase is present, indicating that the LBSI glass framework cannot fully include the amount of LiI added, which leads to the precipitation of crystalline-phase LiI on quenching. With the addition of P 2 S5 , the fraction of the crystalline phase of LiI markedly decreases and is barely observed at x = 0.17, indicating that, with a small amount of P 2 S5 , the glass structure can better dissolve and integrate the LiI. The generated I -in the glass structure can therefore contribute to a weaker coulombic attraction for Li + . However, at high P 2 S5 /(P 2 S5 + B 2 S3 ) ratios of x = 0.75 and 0.80, the peak of crystalline LiI gradually appears again, suggesting that excessive P 2 S5 counteracts on the integration of LiI and would impede the Li + diffusion. The Raman spectrum of P 2 S5 -free electrolyte ( x = 0) ( b , c ) shows the presence of only the [B m S n ] group: the bands around 394 cm -1 and 433 cm -1 correspond to the B-S breathing mode of [BS 3 ] groups 34 ; the bands around 312 cm -1 , 497 cm -1 and 763 cm -1 correspond to the vibrations of metathioborate [B 3 S6 ], thiopyroborate [B 2 S5 ] and [BS 4 ] groups, respectively 34,53 . With x increased to 0.11 and 0.17, a strong Raman peak corresponding to the [PS 4 ] group appears at 420 cm -1 (ref. 35), along with decrease of the [B m S n ] peaks. Notably, at x = 0.29, two more peaks appear at 386 cm -1 and 407 cm -1 , corresponding to the polyanionic groups of [P 2 S6 ] hypo and [P 2 S7 ], respectively 34,35 . Further, when x = 0.50, the Raman peak corresponding to [PS4 ] greatly fades, whereas those of [P 2 S6 ] hypo and [P 2 S7 ] groups are more pronounced, along with the appearance of a new peak at 582 cm -1 ascribed to [P 2 S6 ] hypo (refs. 54,55). Here the two peaks at 386 cm -1 and 582 cm -1 represent the symmetric and asymmetric stretching modes of the [P 2 S6 ] hypo group, respectively ( d ) 54 . As x further increases to 0.67, the [PS 4 ] peak is no longer observed and a new peak appears at 425 cm -1 , along with two subtle peaks at 315 cm -1 and 368 cm -1 , corresponding to the [P 2 S6 ] meta group 54,55 . Further increasing the fraction of P 2 S5 to x = 0.75 and 0.80 leads to a much higher intensity of the [P 2 S7 ] peak, along with the peaks of [P 2 S6 ] meta and [P 2 S6 ] hypo . On the basis of these results, we can clearly observe two transitions of the local structures in the LBPSI electrolytes as x increases: (1) the appearance of the [PS 4 ] group at x = 0.11; (2) the gradual disappearance of the [PS 4 ] group, along with the dominance of the [P 2 S6 ] and [P 2 S7 ] groups at x = 0.50. By associating the local structural changes with the evolution of ionic conductivity (Fig. 1b), we can draw the following conclusions: at x = 0.11, the appearance of the [PS 4 ] group substantially enhances the ionic conductivity, accounting for the high conductivity of more than 1 mS cm -1 at x = 0.11, 0.17 and 0.29. We believe that the [PS 4 ] group promotes disruption of the large B-S network and formation of island-like structures, thereby enhancing the Li + ion transport. The fragmentation is probably because of the different coordination preference of P (fourfold coordinated) and B (threefold coordinated), that is, the incorporation of P thermodynamically breaks the threefold coordinated B-S network. As x increases to 0.50, the appearance and dominance of [P 2 S6 ] and [P 2 S7 ] polyanions decreases the ionic conductivity, which ultimately reduces to 10 -3 mS cm -1 at x = 0.80, which is probably because of the highly charged polyanions exhibiting higher coulombic attraction for Li + ions than the [PS 4 ] group 35 . Further, as shown in 31 P MAS NMR spectra ( e ), the resonances around 83 ppm, 99 ppm and 108 ppm can be ascribed to the [PS 4 ], [P 2 S7 ] and [P 2 S6 ] groups, respectively 34 . It is clear that the resonance of [PS 4 ] appears in the electrolytes with x = 0.17 and 0.29. Further, the resonance of polyanionic [P 2 S7 ] and [P 2 S6 ] groups appear in the electrolyte with x = 0.29 (and not in the one with 0.17), which is in accordance with the Raman results. Altogether, in LBPSI, we find evidence for a more fragmented network (which should provide more free volume) and effective inclusion of I -, which results in higher ionic conductivity and easier breaking of the bond between Li + and the anionic framework ligands at the electrode-electrolyte interface.

Extended Data Fig. 2 | See next page for caption.

## Article

Extended Data Fig. 2 | Detailed electrochemical performance data for the evaluation of fast-charging ASSLSBs. a , Differential capacity (d Q /d V ) plots of the ASSLSB fitted with LBPSI with varied charging rates from 2C to 35C and a fixed discharging rate of 1C at 30 °C (voltage profiles shown in Fig. 2b; sulfur loading: 1.0 mg cm -2 ). b , c , The discharge-charge voltage profiles at varied rates for the first several activation cycles (shown in Fig. 2a) of the cells with LBPSI ( b ) and Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 ( c ). d , e , The discharge-charge voltage profiles of the ASSLSB fitted with the Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 electrolyte with charging rates from 2C to 35C and a fixed discharging rate of 1C at 30 °C ( d ) and the corresponding differential capacity (d Q /d V ) plots ( e ) (sulfur loading: 1.0 mg cm -2 ). On the basis of the d Q /d V plots, we can observe that charging and discharging of the cell fitted with LBPSI exhibits distinct redox peaks when charged at 2C to 35C rates, indicating faradaic processes; in contrast, the cell fitted with Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 exhibits very small oxidation peaks when charged at rates exceeding 15C. f -h , The specific capacity ( f ), discharge-charge voltage profiles ( g ) and d Q /d V plots ( h ) of the cell using LBPSI as the active material (containing no sulfur in cathode; mass based on LBPSI), measured at the same areal current density as that for the ASSLSB in Fig. 2a (discharge current density is 1.7 mA cm -2 ). The loading of LBPSI is 1.9 mg cm -2 , close to the amount of LBPSI used in the cathode of an ASSLSB. In the d Q /d V plots, we can observe distinct oxidation and reduction peaks owing to the redox behaviour of the LBPSI electrolyte itself. It should be noted that a small but constant fraction (7.8-8.9%) of the capacity comes from the fully reversible redox behaviour of the LBPSI electrolyte at all investigated rates, as quantified by the cell using LBPSI as the only active material. i , The d Q /d V plots of the ASSLSB fitted with LBPSI at 60 °C, with varied charging rates from 5C to 150C and a fixed discharging rate of 2C (sulfur loading: 1.05 mg cm -2 ). j , The d Q /d V plots of the ASSLSB fitted with Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 at charging rates from 5C to 150C and a fixed discharging rate of 2C at 60 °C. k , l , The discharge-charge voltage profiles ( k ) and d Q /d V plots ( l ) of the cell with LBPSI as the active material (containing no sulfur in cathode) at 60 °C (discharging current density is 3.5 mA cm -2 ; the loading of LBPSI is 1.9 mg cm -2 ).

Extended Data Fig. 3 | See next page for caption.

## Article

Extended Data Fig. 3 | Galvanostatic cycling of the In/InLi|LBPSI|In/InLi symmetric cell, the three-electrode sulfur-containing cell and long-term cycling of the ASSLSB at extreme charging rates. a , b , The galvanostatic cycling of the In/InLi|LBPSI|In/InLi symmetric cell (In/InLi foil as both electrodes) with current increasing from 0.26 mA cm -2 to 31.8 mA cm -2 at 25 °C (the Li plating/stripping time is 30 min for measurements with current density ≤ 3.8 mA cm -2 and 5 min for those with current density ≥ 6.4 mA cm -2 ) and enlarged section at high currents (reaching the voltage limit) ( b ). The symmetric cell can indeed operate at higher currents without soft or hard short-circuit at the areal capacity used, but in fact suffers from much greater overpotential than at low currents; this indicates that the In/InLi electrode shows limited reaction kinetics. This result offers some qualitative hints on the overall poor reaction kinetics for In/InLi electrodes. Such a high overpotential at the anode, along with the ohmic resistance from the SE, contributes to the high overpotential of full cells at high currents. c -f , Three-electrode cell measurement to examine the origin of the high overpotential of full cells at high currents. c , The scheme of the three-electrode cell, with a thin Li wire placed in the electrolyte layer close to the In/InLi counter electrode as a reference electrode. d -f , Discharge-charge voltage profiles at the current density of 0.08 mA cm -2 ( d ), 8.3 mA cm -2 ( e ) and 15.0 mA cm -2 ( f ) (sulfur loading of 1.0 mg cm -2 ; 25 °C). At a very low current density of 0.08 mA cm -2 , the potential of the In/InLi electrode stabilizes at around 0.61 V. As the current density increases to 8.3 mA cm -2 , the potential of the In/InLi electrode increases to about 0.75 V (on discharge) and reduces to about 0.46 V (on charge), resulting in a discharging overpotential of 0.14 V and charging overpotential of 0.15 V.

On further increasing of the current to 15.0 mA cm -2 , the potential of the In/InLi electrode increases to about 0.90 V (on discharge) and the potential decreases to about 0.31 V (on charge), resulting in a discharging overpotential of 0.29 V and charging overpotential of 0.30 V. Therefore, the reaction overpotential of the In/InLi electrode is high and increases greatly with the current density. Furthermore, there is a large increase of the ohmic resistance when the current is increased from 0.08 mA cm -2 to 8.3 mA cm -2 . The ohmic resistance is qualitatively recognized by the abrupt voltage change (IR drop) on supplying of the charging/discharging currents. The increased ohmic resistance is the result of the thick layer of the electrolyte separator between the sulfur working electrode and the Li reference electrode, and the moderate ionic conductivity of the SE (2.4 mS cm -1 ). The high overpotential of the cell at high charging rates is largely because of the In/InLi anode and IR ohmic polarization 56 . g -j , The actual discharge-charge voltage profiles by using the potential versus In/InLi counter electrode of the ASSLSBs fitted with the LBPSI and Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 electrolyte at different current densities at 30 °C ( g , h ) and 60 °C ( i , j ). k , l , Cycling performance ( k ) and discharge-charge voltage profiles ( l ) of ASSLSB fitted with LBPSI electrolyte at a charging rate of 100C and a discharging rate of 2C at 60 °C. The cell was subjected to an activation process by cycling at 1-80C (charging rates) for several cycles. The cell sustains 5,000 cycles with a capacity retention greater than 80.4% (sulfur loading: 1.0 mg cm -2 ). It is clear that the cell experienced marginal voltage degradation over the cycling. The fluctuation in Coulomb efficiency is because of the limited resolution for data acquisition from the equipment with such a short duration of charging.

Extended Data Fig. 4 | The electronic and ionic conductivity of sulfur electrodes prepared with LBPSI-0.17, LBPSI-0.29 and Li5.5 PS4.5 Cl1.5 and the morphological characterization of the electrolytes. a , DC polarization curves of sulfur electrodes with an ion-blocking configuration of Ti|sulfur electrode|Ti. b -d , DC polarization curves of sulfur electrodes with an electron-blocking configuration of Ti|Cu|In/InLi|SE|sulfur electrode|SE|In/ InLi|Cu|Ti. e , Nyquist plot of the symmetric cell of In/InLi|SE|In/InLi. f -k , Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images ( f -h ) and corresponding particle size distributions (derived from the SEM imaging by statistical analysis; scale bars, 10 μm) ( i -k ) of LBPSI-0.17 ( f , i ), LBPSI-0.29 ( g , j ) and Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 ( h , k ). The electronic conductivity of the sulfur cathodes was obtained by measuring the electronic resistance with an ion-blocking cell configuration of Ti|sulfur electrode|Ti ( a ). The room-temperature electronic conductivities for the three sulfur cathodes prepared with LBPSI-0.17, LBPSI-0.29 and Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 is 0.031 S cm -1 , 0.022 S cm -1 and 0.042 S cm -1 ,

respectively. The ionic conductivities of the sulfur cathodes was obtained by measuring the total ionic resistance with an electron-blocking configuration of Ti|Cu| In/InLi|SE|sulfur electrode|SE|In/InLi|Cu|Ti (ref. 21) ( b -d ). The contributions of the SE and In/InLi electrode are measured to be 23 Ω and 0.9 Ω with the equivalent circuit fitting of the symmetric cell Ti|Cu|In/InLi|SE|In/ InLi|Cu|Ti ( e ). The room-temperature ionic conductivity for the three sulfur cathodes prepared with LBPSI-0.17, LBPSI-0.29 and Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 after subtracting the contributions of SE and In/InLi electrode is 0.56 × 10 -4 S cm -1 , 0.39 × 10 -4 S cm -1 and 0.41 × 10 -4 S cm -1 , respectively. The three composite sulfur cathodes exhibit similar ionic and electronic conductivities. The SEM images and particle-size distributions (derived from the SEM imaging by statistical analysis) ( f -k ) show that the mean particle sizes of LBPSI-0.17, LBPSI-0.29 and Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 are somewhat close at 2.13, 2.34 and 2.18 μm, respectively. Likewise, the three electrolytes all exhibit wide particle-size distribution over 0-10 μm, with a concentration in the range 0.5-5.0 μm.

## Article

Extended Data Fig. 5 | Further electrochemical data of the cells prepared with electrolyte-carbon composites containing no sulfur in the cathode and the cells with sulfur cathodes. a , b , The cycling performance with capacity and Coulomb efficiency of the cell prepared with a LBPSI-C composite cathode (wt% LBPSI:wt% C = 8:2) containing no sulfur (0.25 mA cm -2 ; LBPSI loading of 6.5 mg cm -2 ) ( a ) and the corresponding differential capacity plots (d Q /d V ) ( b ). c , The CV curves of the cell for the first five cycles. The cell in a -c is configured as In/InLi|LBPSI|LBPSI-C. The long-term cycling performance, d Q /d V plots and CV curves altogether show the high stability and reversibility of the redox reaction of LBPSI within the potential window of interest. d , The d Q /d V plots of the cell prepared with Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 as the active material in the cathode (wt% Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 :wt% C = 8:2), configured as In/InLi|Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 |Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 -C for the first, second and fiftieth cycles; the d Q /d V plots of first and fiftieth cycles show notable differences in terms of the peak positions and intensity, indicating irreversible decomposition of Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 after the first charging process, which may cause some permanent damage to the interface in a sulfur cell. e , f , First-cycle discharge-charge voltage profiles of the cells with sulfur cathodes at a discharging/charging rate of 0.1C ( e )

and the corresponding differential capacity (d Q /d V ) ( f ) (25 °C), which shows the presence of LBPSI redox that occurs in the cell at a slightly higher voltage than that of Li 2 S/S, whereas the Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 redox, if any, occurs with a very much overlapped voltage range with that of Li 2 S/S. g , h , In situ EIS studies on a sulfur cell fitted with LBPSI for the first charge (after the first discharge process) and following discharge at 0.1C: Nyquist plots at representative states of charge/discharge ( g ) and the corresponding distribution of relaxation time analysis ( h ). The in situ EIS study shows that, when charged to 2.8 V, a new semicircle at the medium frequencies appears, indicating that a new interface forms, which is herein tentatively ascribed to the surficial oxidation of LBPSI forming a surface layer. The corresponding distribution of relaxation time analysis that mathematically converts the frequency-dependent EIS spectra to relaxation-based functions γ ( τ ) (ref. 57), shows the appearance of relaxation distribution ( γ ) at the characteristic time constant ( τ ) of 10 -3 -10 0 s and further confirms the formation of a new interface. The reversibility of the redox behaviour of LBPSI is indicated by the observation of the additional interface disappearing during discharge.

Extended Data Fig. 6 | Ex situ synchrotron sulfur K-edge XANES profiles of the sulfur cathode fitted with LBPSI electrolyte and ex situ Raman and XPS

studies of the cells prepared with LBPSI as the active material in the cathode (configured as In/InLi|LBPSI|LBPSI-C). a , Sulfur K-edge XANES spectra of the sulfur cathode fitted with LBPSI electrolyte performed ex situ at different discharge/charge states, along with the sulfur standards for references. b , Ex situ Raman spectra of the pristine cathode and the cathode charged to 3.2 V of the cell using LBPSI as the active material (containing no sulfur) in the cathode. The Raman spectra of LiI, I 2 and milled I 2 /LiI ((I 2 +LiI)-BM) are measured as references. c , d , The I 3d ( c ) and S 2p ( d ) XPS data of the pristine LBPSI material, the pristine cathode, the electrode charged to 3.2 V and the electrode subsequently discharged to 1.4 V in the cell configured as In/InLi|LBPSI|LBPSI-C (dotted lines, raw data; black lines, fitted total; coloured lines, fitted components). e , The I 3d spectra of the pristine electrode and the electrode charged to 3.2 V in the cell for better visibility of the signal shift. We performed ex situ sulfur K-edge XANES measurements and observe that the sulfur cathode using LBPSI electrolyte discharges with the formation of Li 2S x intermediates and that Li 2 S/Li 2S x is completely converted to sulfur on charge. The S/KB and Li 2 S/KB samples prepared by mixing the respective sulfur species with KB were used as references. The S/KB shows two features at 2,472.6 eV (the white line) and 2,480.0 eV; the Li 2 S/KB shows three features at 2,473.6, 2,476.2 and 2,484.0 eV. The spectrum of the pristine cathode shows the features of S 0 at 2,472.6 and 2,480.0 eV. When discharged to 1.4 V, the features of Li 2 S at 2,473.6, 2,476.2 and 2,484.0 eV as well as that for Li 2S x at 2,471.8 eV appear 5,58 . After the subsequent charging, the features corresponding to Li 2 S or Li 2S x disappear and S 0 features at 2,472.6 and 2,480.0 eV emerge again. This indicates that the charging has fully converted Li 2 S (and Li 2S x ) back to sulfur. When discharged to 1.4 V again, the features of S 0 disappear and the features of Li 2 S and Li 2S x appear.

This demonstrates the reversibility of the SSSRR during charging and discharging. In the Raman spectra of the LBPSI-C electrodes ( b ), compared with the pristine electrode, for the electrode charged to 3.2 V, a broad band appears at 100-200 cm -1 . The peak at around 181 cm -1 is attributed to I 2 and the peaks around 110 cm -1 and 167 cm -1 are attributed to I 3 -(ref. 59). For a clear reference of the assignment of these peaks, we measured the Raman spectra of crystalline LiI, crystalline I 2 and a milled mixture of I 2 /LiI (which forms LiI 3 ). We can see that the peak around 181 cm -1 is clearly attributed to the vibrations of I 2 and the peaks around 110 cm -1 and 167 cm -1 are attributed to the vibrations of I 3 -. From the I 3d XPS spectra ( c , e ), we can clearly observe the signal shift of the I 3d spectra to higher binding energy on charging the cell to 3.2 V ( e ), confirming the I on the surface of the SE being present with a higher valence state than that in LBPSI (I -). By a closer observation of the fitted I 3d spectra, the pristine LBPSI electrolyte and LBPSI-C electrode show anionic I -, as evidenced by the I 3d doublet signals at 618.8 eV (3d 5/2 energy) 41 ( c ). On charging to 3.2 V, the oxidized iodine species are clearly observed (tentatively assigned to I 2 /I 3 -) 42 , which locates at around 619.9 eV (3d 5/2 energy). Furthermore, after subsequent discharging to 1.4 V, the signals of oxidized iodine species disappear, demonstrating the reversible oxidation/reduction of iodine species. For the S 2p spectra ( d ), the pristine LBPSI electrolyte and electrode contain [PS 4 ] units (and [BS4 ], that is, non-bridging sulfur) and P-S-P (and B-S-B, that is, bridging sulfur) signals, with characteristic S 2p signals located at 161.5 eV and 162.5 eV (2p 3/2 energy) 43,60 . The LBPSI electrode charged to 3.2 V contains oxidized sulfur (S 0 ), which is evident by the characteristic S 2p doublet signals at around 163.6 eV (2p3/2 energy) 61 . After discharge to 1.4 V, the signal of oxidized sulfur (S 0 ) disappears and signals of bridging sulfur and non-bridging sulfur appear, which demonstrate the reversible oxidation/reduction of sulfur species.

## Article

Extended Data Fig. 7 | The experimental evidence of diffusion of I 2 along the SE particle surface and the occurrence of the reaction between I 2 as redox mediator and Li2S. a -c , Evidence of diffusion of I 2 along the SE particle surface. a , The LBPSI electrolyte pellet on direct contact with I 2 for 5 min. b , The LBPSI electrolyte pellet placed at the I 2 bottle cap for indirect contact with I 2 for 3 days. c , EDX mapping of the vertical cross-section of Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 electrolyte pellet after indirect contact with I 2 for 3 days. d , Pictures showing the process of mixing Li 2 S and I 2 in anhydrous ethanol. e , f , XRD pattern ( e ) and Raman spectrum ( f ) of the precipitated product. g , h , Characterization of the reaction of Li 2 S and I 2 by a gentle ball-milling at 100 rpm for 2 h, with the XRD pattern ( g ) and Raman spectrum ( h ) of the product. i , j , Characterization of the reaction of Li 2 S and I 2 by simple hand grinding in the mortar (5 min), with the XRD pattern ( i ) and Raman spectrum ( j ) of the product. The insets of j are visual pictures of the mixture of Li 2 S and I 2 before and after hand grinding in the mortar. The diffusion and permeation of I 2 into the electrolyte pellet is shown in a , b . On direct contact of the LBPSI SE pellet with the iodine (brown), I 2 sublimes and diffuses very quickly over the LBPSI pellet surface within 5 min; the surface of the electrolyte is covered with brown iodine ( a ). The LBPSI pellet was placed at the cap of a bottle that contains I 2 and the bottle was sealed with grease to prevent escape of iodine vapour through the gap (that is, indirect contact; b ). After 3 days without direct contact with I 2 , the outer/top surface of the electrolyte pellet turns brown, indicating penetration of the iodine vapour across the SE pellet ( b ), which further proves the diffusion of I 2 along the grain boundaries and throughout the SE pellet. Note that these experiments were conducted in an Ar-filled glovebox and not in vacuum. Further, we performed the same indirect contact experiment with the iodine-free Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 electrolyte. The cross-section of the pellet was subjected to scanning electron microscopy imaging and EDX analysis ( c ). We can see that the element I is uniformly distributed, along with the P, S and Cl, over the imaged area (several hundred μm; c ). To mimic the reactions between Li 2 S and I 2 , equal molar amounts of Li 2 S and I 2 were first added separately into anhydrous ethanol, the solutions of which are, respectively, colourless and purple (step 1; d ) and, subsequently, the two solutions of Li 2 S and I 2 were mixed. Along with the change of colour (pale yellow, step 2), we observed precipitation, which is confirmed to consist of crystallized LiI along with S (as shown by the XRD pattern in e ). The Raman spectrum further shows a strong signal corresponding to S ( f ). Therefore, the products of Li 2 S reacting with I 2 are confirmed to be S and LiI. With an effort to further mimic the condition of the reaction occurring within the all-solid-state Li-S cells, the reaction was performed in solid state. Specifically, equimolar amounts of Li 2 S and I 2 were mixed by a gentle ball-milling at 100 rpm for 2 h (to prevent overheating of the jar) and LiI and S are formed on solid-solid mixing of the two materials (based on XRD pattern; g ). As shown in h , the Raman spectrum exhibits strong S signals (154 cm -1 , 219 cm -1 and 473 cm -1 ), I 2 (signal around 181 cm -1 ) and I 3 -(110 cm -1 and 167 cm -1 ) 59 . In fact, even by simple hand grinding in the mortar, the two materials react very quickly ( j ); during 5 min of grinding, the two materials react to form LiI (based on XRD pattern; i ), S and I 3 -(Raman spectrum; j ). The feasibility of the chemical reaction between I 2 and Li 2 S that we experimentally confirmed above is strong evidence for us to conclude that the occurrence of redox mediation in the cell at high charging rates are not cascade reactions (that is, occurring sequentially without interplay). Further, the 0.3-0.4 V higher potential for iodine redox over that of sulfur redox (Fig. 3a) serves as the theoretical basis for a chemical reaction between the two couples. This is distinct from the behaviour of sulfur cells using Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 , in which the SE redox is expected to occur simultaneously with sulfur redox owing to the lack of potential difference (Fig. 3b).

Extended Data Fig. 8 | Characterizations and electrochemical performance of ASSLSBs using Li3 PS4 and 70Li3 PS4·30LiI. Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 was used as the electrolyte separator for the ASSLSBs for its high ionic conductivity. a , b , Powder XRD patterns of the Li 3 PS4 ( a ) and 70Li 3 PS4·30LiI ( b ). c , Nyquist plots of impedance spectra of Li 3 PS4 and 70Li 3 PS4·30LiI for the measurement of the respective ionic conductivity. d , The first-cycle discharge-charge voltage profile of ASSLSBs at 0.05C. e , Charging-rate performance with varied charging rates (labelled) and a constant discharging rate of 1C. Cells were subjected to an activation process by charging at progressively increasing rates of 0.05-0.8C for several cycles before being charged at 2C (sulfur loading: 1.0 mg cm -2 ). f , g , Discharge-charge voltage profiles of ASSLSBs with charging rates from 2C to 30C using Li 3 PS4 ( f ) and 70Li 3 PS4·30LiI ( g ) as the catholyte, respectively. h , Nyquist plot for the measurement of the ionic conductivity of LiI (the roomtemperature ionic conductivity is measured to be 0.7 × 10 -6 S cm -1 ). On discharge, the iodine species (more precisely, the LiI) can serve as ionically conducting facilitator in the cathode ( h ) because the as-formed LiI would remain in close contact to the sulfur that it has redox-mediated, and as a moderate ionic conductor (0.7 × 10 -6 S cm -1 ; h ) can thus assist in bridging the ionic transport path and enhance the discharge kinetics. We have further demonstrated the much-improved SSSRR kinetics enabled by another iodine-containing sulfide electrolyte (70Li 3 PS4·30LiI), which highlights the universality of the iodine-

based surficial redox-mediating strategy. Li 3 PS4 and 70Li 3 PS4·30LiI electrolytes were synthesized to investigate whether the iodine-based redox mediating takes effect in these electrolytes. The two electrolytes are glass ceramics, of which the crystalline phase herein is confirmed to be Li 3 PS4 ( Pnma phase) 62 and Li 4 PS4I ( P 4/ nmm phase) 63 by XRD, respectively ( a , b ). The Li 3 PS4 and 70Li3 PS4·30LiI electrolytes show similar room-temperature ionic conductivity of 0.17 mS cm -1 and 0.13 mS cm -1 , respectively ( c ). We prepared sulfur cathodes using Li 3 PS4 and 70Li 3 PS4·30LiI electrolytes in the same way as for those using LBPSI. The Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 electrolyte was used as the separator for the cells. The cell with 70Li 3 PS4·30LiI, when charged at 0.05C, shows a further voltage plateau at 2.7 V, which is consistent with the LBPSI cell and is the result of the redox of iodine ( d ). The rate performance of the sulfur cathode with 70Li 3 PS4·30LiI is superior to that using Li 3 PS4. The cell with 70Li 3 PS4·30LiI exhibits a high specific capacity of 1,300 mAh g -1 at a charging rate of 2C and maintains 660 mAh g -1 at 10C (discharging rate constant at 1C). At low rates of 0.05C to 0.5C for the first several cycles, the cell fitted with Li 3 PS4 shows a higher capacity than the cell using 70Li 3 PS4·30LiI. However, at charging rates of 2C and 10C, it shows lower capacities of 1,113 mAh g -1 and 422 mAh g -1 , respectively, than that using 70Li3 PS4·30LiI in the cathode. Therefore, we consider that the iodine-based redox mediation effect should apply to a variety of SEs containing iodine on the surface.

## Article

Extended Data Fig. 9 | Long-term cycling performance of ASSLSBs. a , b , Discharge-charge voltage profiles of the cell fitted with Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 electrolyte ( a ) and LBPSI electrolyte ( b ) at a discharging/charging rate of 0.2C over different numbers of cycles (sulfur loading: 1.5 mg cm -2 ). c , Discharge-charge voltage profiles of the cell fitted with LBPSI electrolyte at a discharging/charging rate of 2C over 5,000 cycles (sulfur loading: 1.1 mg cm -2 ). d , Discharge-charge voltage profiles of the cell fitted with LBPSI electrolyte at a discharging/charging rate of 5C over 25,000 cycles (sulfur loading: 1.1 mg cm -2 ). e , Discharge-charge voltage profiles of the cell fitted with Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 electrolyte at a discharging/charging rate of 5C over 10,000 cycles (sulfur loading: 1.1 mg cm -2 ) as a comparison. f , The evolution of stack pressure of ASSLSBs during discharge-charge cycles at 30 °C with LBPSI and Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 electrolyte, respectively. ∆ p represents the change of stack

pressure within one full discharge-charge cycle and p ∆ is the average over five cycles. Both cells show apparent stack-pressure variations during cycling, indicating volume expansion and contraction of the electrodes; however, the average amplitude of pressure variation within one cycle for the cell using LBPSI is much lower than that with Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 ( p ∆ =0.45 MPa LBPSI ; p ∆ =1.08 MPa LiPSCI ), which is indicative of a more profound buffering of the microscopic volume change in the case of LBPSI. g , h , Long-term cycling of the cell fitted with LBPSI at a discharging/charging rate of 8C (sulfur loading: 1.0 mg cm -2 ) ( g ) and corresponding discharge-charge voltage profiles at 25 °C ( h ). The cell was subjected to an activation process by cycling at 0.05-7C for several cycles. The cell exhibits a high capacity of 744 mAh g -1 at 8C, with 78% capacity retention over 10,000 cycles.

## Extended Data Fig. 10 | Long-term cycling performance of ASSLSBs.

a , Discharge-charge voltage profiles of the cell fitted with LBPSI at a discharging/ charging rate of 1C over 1,000 cycles (sulfur loading: 3.0 mg cm -2 ). b , Dischargecharge voltage profiles of the cell with a high sulfur fraction of 45 wt% in the cathode, fitted with LBPSI at a 0.2C rate (sulfur loading: 1.9 mg cm -2 ) and 25 °C. c , d , Long-term cycling of the cell fitted with LBPSI with a high sulfur loading of 6.3 mg cm -2 ( c ) and corresponding discharge-charge voltage profiles at 25 °C at a discharging/charging rate of 0.1C ( d ). e , f , Discharge-charge voltage profiles of the cell fitted with LBPSI for the first two activation cycles ( e ) and dischargecharge voltage profiles at a discharging/charging rate of 15C over 10,000 cycles ( f ) at 60 °C (sulfur loading: 1.0 mg cm -2 ). g , Discharge-charge voltage profiles of the cell fitted with Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 electrolyte at a discharging/charging rate of 15C over 10,000 cycles (sulfur loading: 1.0 mg cm -2 ) as a comparison. h , i , Lowtemperature performance of ASSLSBs at -20 °C (sulfur loading: 1.1 mg cm -2 ). h , Charging-rate performance of cells using LBPSI and Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 electrolytes

with varied charging rates (labelled) and a constant discharging rate of 0.2C. The first cycle was operated at room temperature at 0.05C for activation. At the low rates of 0.05-0.20C, the cell with Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 shows a slightly higher capacity than one with LBPSI at -20 °C, which is probably because of the lower ionic conductivity of LBPSI. At a charging rate of 0.3C, the two cells show comparable specific capacity of about 820 mAh g -1 . Beyond that rate, the cell with LBPSI exhibits higher capacities, that is, a specific capacity of 652 mAh g -1 at a charging rate of 0.5C, maintaining 466 mAh g -1 at 1C, whereas the cell with Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 exhibits a specific capacity of 514 mAh g -1 at 0.5C and maintains only 295 mAh g -1 at 1C. i , Long-term cycling of the cells at a 1C charge/discharge rate at -20 °C. The cell with LBPSI electrolyte shows stable cycling with 406 mAh g -1 at 200 cycles and almost no capacity fading over 1,000 cycles. By contrast, the cell with Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl 1.5 shows only 128 mAh g -1 at 200 cycles, which is maintained over 1,000 cycles.