pubs.acs.org/accounts

Article

## Innovative Approaches to Li-Argyrodite Solid Electrolytes for AllSolid-State Lithium Batteries

Laidong Zhou, ⊥ Nicolo ̀ Minafra, ⊥ Wolfgang G. Zeier, * and Linda F. Nazar *

Cite This: Acc. Chem. Res. 2021, 54, 2717 -2728

## ACCESS

Metrics &amp; More

CONSPECTUS: As the world transitions away from fossil energy to green and renewable energy, electrochemical energy storage increasingly becomes a vital component of the mix to conduct this transition. The central goal in developing next-generation batteries is to maximize the gravimetric and volumetric energy density and battery cycle life and improve safety. All solid-state batteries using a solid electrolyte and a lithium metal anode represent one of the most promising technologies that can achieve this goal. Highly conductive solid electrolytes (&gt;10 mS · cm -1 ) are the key component to remove the safety concerns inherent with /uniFB02 ammable organic liquid electrolytes and achieve high energy density by enabling high active material loading. Considering a range of inorganic solid electrolytes that have been developed to date, sul /uniFB01 de solid electrolytes exhibit the highest ionic conductivities, which

Article Recommendations

even surpass those of conventional organic liquid electrolytes. Argyrodite-structured sul /uniFB01 de solid electrolytes are among the most promising materials in this class and are currently the dominantly used solid electrolytes for all-solid-state battery fabrication. Argyrodite solid electrolytes are particularly appealing because of their ultrahigh Li-ion conductivity, quasi-stable solid -electrolyte interphase (SEI) formed with Li metal, and ability to be prepared via scalable solution-assisted synthesis approaches. These factors are all vital for commercial applications.

In this Account, we a /uniFB00 ord an overview of our recent development of several argyrodite superionic conductors, including Li 6.6 Si 0.6 Sb0.5 S5 I (24 mS · cm -1 ), Li 6.6 Ge0.6 P0.4 S5 I (18 mS · cm -1 ), and Li 5.5 PS4.5 Cl1.5 (12 mS · cm -1 ), and a comprehensive understanding of the origin of the underlying high conductivity, namely, sul /uniFB01 de/halide anion site disorder and Li cation site disorder. A high degree of sul /uniFB01 de/halide anion site disorder (changes in anion distribution) modi /uniFB01 es the anionic charge, which in turn strongly in /uniFB02 uences the lithium distribution. A more inhomogeneous charge distribution in anion-disordered systems generates a spatially di /uniFB00 use and delocalized lithium density, resulting in faster ionic transport. Lithium cation site disorder generated by increasing Li carrier concentration through aliovalent substitution creates high-energy interstitial sites for Li ion di /uniFB00 usion, which activate concerted ion migration and /uniFB02 atten the energy landscape for Li ion di /uniFB00 usion. This enables high conductivity in Li-rich argyrodite superionic conductors. These concepts are also expected to promote the design of rational new solid electrolytes and fundamental understanding of the structure -ion transport relationships in inorganic ionic conductors.

Collectively, a comprehensive and deep understanding of the interphase formation between argyrodite solid electrolytes and cathode active materials/Li metal and the failure mechanism of all-solid-state batteries with argyrodite solid electrolytes will lead to the bottom-up engineering of the cathode/anode-solid electrolyte interfaces, which will accelerate the development of safe, high-energydensity all-solid-state lithium batteries.

## ■ KEY REFERENCES

- Zhou, L.; Assoud, A.; Zhang, Q.; Wu, X.; Nazar, L.F. A New Family of Argyrodite Thioantimonate Lithium Superionic Conductors. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2019 , 141 , 19002 -19013. 1 We discovered a new family of thioantimonate argyrodites that exhibit the highest ionic conductivity among all argyrodite solid electrolytes and provide a comprehensive understanding of the effect of Li site disorder on ion conduction.
- Zhou, L.; Park, K.-H.; Sun, X.; Lale ̀ re, F.; Adermann, T.; Hartmann, P.; Nazar, L. F. Solvent-Engineered Design of Argyrodite Li6PS5X (X = Cl, Br, I) Solid Electrolytes

Received:

December 22, 2020

Published:

May 25, 2021

Figure 1. Unit cell of the Li 6 PS5X (X = Cl, Br, I) cubic polymorph. In the ordered con /uniFB01 guration, (a) X -anions form a face-centered cubic structure with S 2 -ions in half of the tetrahedral voids and (b) PS 4 3 -units in the octahedral interstices. Within such an anionic framework, (c) Li + sites form cagelike structures around the free sul /uniFB01 de positions. (d) Five di /uniFB00 erent types of tetrahedral voids for potential lithium-ion occupations with their Wycko /uniFB00 positions. The only possible T5(48 h ) -T5(48 h ) jump is the doublet process (e), while long-range intra- and intercage jumps (f) require lithium migration through T2(48 h ) sites. In addition to T2(48 h ) sites, (g) alterative pathways may involve T4(16 e ) sites for the intercage jump. Reproduced from ref 45. Copyright 2020 American Chemical Society.

with High Ionic Conductivity. ACS Energy Lett. 2019 , 4 , 265 -270. 2 We developed a direct solution synthesis of argyrodite solid electrolytes with high ionic conductivity.

- Kraft, M.A.; Culver, S.P.; Calderon, M.; Böcher, F.; Krauskopf, T.; Senyshyn, A.; Dietrich, C.; Zevalkink, A.; Janek, J.; Zeier, W. G. In /uniFB02 uence of Lattice Polarizability on the Ionic Conductivity in the Lithium Superionic Argyrodites Li 6 PS5X (X = Cl, Br, I). J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2017 , 139 , 10909 -10918. 3 We demonstrated the influence of the halide/sulfide site disorder and changing lattice polarizability on the ionic transport, providing the f irst experimental correlation between disorder and transport in this class of materials.
- Kraft, M. A.; Ohno, S.; Zinkevich, T.; Koerver, R.; Culver, S. P.; Fuchs, T.; Senyshyn, A.; Indris, I.; Morgan, B. J.; Zeier, W. G. Inducing High Ionic Conductivity in the Lithium Superionic Argyrodites Li 6+ x P1 -x Ge x S5 I for All-Solid-State Batteries. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2018 , 140 , 16330 -16339. 4 We introduced aliovalent substitution as an approach to flatten the energy landscape and provide pathways for faster ionic conduction in the lithium argyrodites.

## 1. INTRODUCTION

Our increasing global population and the alarming consequences of heavily utilizing fossil fuels have led to an everincreasing demand for sustainable energy in the past decade. This drives research for low-cost, environmentally friendly, and high-performance energy storage technologies for applications such as electric mobility. 5,6 High-energy-density Li-ion batteries are currently the most popular candidates. Conventional Li-ion batteries exploit /uniFB02 ammable liquid electrolytes and carbon anodes that su /uniFB00 er from low energy density and safety risks. The latter will particularly become a concern as the market fraction of electric vehicles increases as anticipated. Energy storage for solar farms in hot climates that utilizes Liion batteries also requires the battery enclosure be cooled to prevent battery degradation. As a result, Li-ion batteries are starting to undergo an evolution from conventional Li-ion batteries to all-solid-state lithium batteries. All-solid-state lithium batteries that use a solid electrolyte in place of a liquid electrolyte  and ideally a Li metal anode  can eliminate safety concerns and provide higher energy density. 7 -10 Inorganic solid electrolytes also provide excellent thermal stability and conductivities over a wider temperature range, which enables battery operation in a broad range of

conditions (e.g., -10 to 100 ° C) where conventional liquid electrolytes will freeze, boil, or decompose. 11,12 Solid electrolytes with ultrahigh ionic conductivity (i.e., superionic conductors, &gt;10 mS · cm -1 at room temperature) are the key component of all-solid-state batteries necessary to achieve fast charging -discharging and high energy densities. 13 Such high ionic conductivity is needed to enable thick electrode con /uniFB01 gurations with high cathode active material loading, allowing for good percolation and ionic transport in composite electrodes. 13 -15 Among a range of various Li-ion conductors that have been studied, 16 -22 sul /uniFB01 de solid electrolytes have been shown to exhibit particularly high ionic conductivities that surpass even those of conventional organic liquid electrolytes. Accompanied by a ductile nature, 23 which makes them relatively easy to process and realize intimate interfacial contact with cathode and anode active materials  a requirement for all-solid-state battery operation  sul /uniFB01 des have hence been a particular focus of recent research.

Argyrodite-structured sul /uniFB01 de solid electrolytes are among the most well-known materials in this class and are currently the dominantly used solid electrolytes for all-solid-state battery fabrication. Argyrodite solid electrolytes have the general formula Li 7+ x -y M IV x M V 1 -x Ch6 -y X y (M IV = Si, Ge, Sn; M V = P, Sb; Ch = O, S, Se; X = Cl, Br, I, BH4; 0 ≤ x ≤ 1; 0 ≤ y ≤ 2) 1 -4,24 -39 and are particularly appealing because of their high Li-ion conductivities (up to 24 mS · cm -1 to date) 1 and scalable solution-assisted synthesis approaches, 2,40 both of which are vital for commercial applications.

In this Account, we discuss representative examples of the argyrodite solid electrolytes, focusing on recent developments in understanding the origin of their high conductivity, to identify design principles for new superionic conductors. We further assess di /uniFB00 erent synthetic methods as well as general (not often discussed) considerations for ionic conductivity measurement protocols. Finally, we provide a perspective on the fundamental processes of interphase formation between argyrodite solid electrolytes and cathode active materials/Li metal and the failure mechanism of all-solid-state batteries with argyrodite solid electrolytes.

## 1.1. Structure and Major Li-Ion Di /uniFB00 usion Pathways

The argyrodite structure was originally found in the mineral Ag8GeS6, representative of a group of solids possessing high Cu + and Ag + mobility. 24 The Li-argyrodites exhibit two structural polymorphs, with the phase transition temperature depending on the chemical composition. 27 Compounds that crystallize in the low-temperature orthorhombic polymorph, such as Li 7 PS6, show very poor transport properties at room temperature, and high conductivities have been achieved only in the high-temperature cubic phase. 41 This cubic polymorph can be stabilized by replacement of one or more sul /uniFB01 de anions with a halide anion, 27 resulting in Li 6 PS5X (X = Cl, Br, I). Here X -anions form a face-centered cubic (fcc) framework, and nonbonded ' free ' S 2 -ions and PS4 3 -units occupy the tetrahedral and octahedral voids, respectively (Figure 1a,b).

Depending on the composition in Li6PS5X, a certain degree of S 2 -/X -site disorder has been observed (Figure 1a). 3 Caused by di /uniFB00 erent ionic size di /uniFB00 erences, 3 in Li 6 PS5I, the I -and S 2 -anions remain on their two unique crystallographic sites (4 a and 4 d ), while for X = Br -and Cl -, signi /uniFB01 cant site disorder is observed. 3

Overall, the disorder seems to play a critical role in the transport properties (see section 2.1), as it modulates the energy landscape for Li + ions. The argyrodite cubic phase forms a tetrahedral close packing motif that o /uniFB00 ers many inequivalent tetrahedral voids suitable for potential lithium occupation. 27 The voids can be classi /uniFB01 ed into /uniFB01 ve di /uniFB00 erent types on the basis of the number of corners, edges, and faces each tetrahedron shares with the neighboring PS4 3 -units. 27 Figure 1d shows these possible voids together with their Wycko /uniFB00 positions. Early studies assigned lithium occupancy only for type 5 (T5, 48 h ) sites. Two neighboring T5 tetrahedra share a face with each other, and an additional site with trigonal-planar coordination is denoted as type 5a (T5a, 24 g ). 24 These two lithium positions, 48 h and 24 g for the T5 and T5a sites, respectively, form cagelike structures around the nominal free sul /uniFB01 de position (Wycko /uniFB00 4 d ) (Figure 1c,e).

Such a lithium con /uniFB01 guration was initially proposed on the basis of Cu/Ag archetypal phases and consequently con /uniFB01 rmed by neutron di /uniFB00 raction studies. 42 However, a systematic analysis of the availability of other crystallographic sites to accommodate Li + was never performed. Possible conduction pathways were proposed by a molecular dynamics study, 43 consisting of three di /uniFB00 erent processes involving only T5(48 h ) lithium sites: doublet and intracage jumps, both within the same cage, and additional intercage jumps between di /uniFB00 erent cages. This representation of the conduction mechanisms seems unrealistic since jumps that involve only T5(48 h ) sites do not form continuous polyhedral pathways, 44 -46 and therefore, other interstices must take part for long-range di /uniFB00 usion. The population of additional lithium sites was /uniFB01 rst demonstrated in Li-stu /uniFB00 ed argyrodites (Li 6+ x Si x Sb1 -x S5 I 1 and Li 6.15M1.5S6 (M = Al0.1 Si 0.9 ) 36 ), and their existence in stoichiometric Li6PS5X (X = Cl, Br) was recently con /uniFB01 rmed by high-resolution neutron di /uniFB00 raction. 45 Lithium occupation on non-T5(48 h ) sites has also been observed in the related oxysul /uniFB01 des Li 6.15 M1.5S5.4 O0.6 (M = Al0.1Si0.9 ). 37 These recent studies, bolstered by molecular dynamics simulations, 46 show that non-T5 sites can be signi /uniFB01 cantly occupied and must play a role in any contiguous conduction pathway through the argyrodite lattice. Therefore, on the basis of these newly found positions, three di /uniFB00 erent jumps can be identi /uniFB01 ed. The /uniFB01 rst of these is the doublet jump , which represents the local motion between face-sharing T5(48 h ) tetrahedra via T5a(24 g ) (Figure 1e). This is the only process that does not involve non-T5 sites. The second type of jump is the intracage jump , which consists of lithium motion between pairs of non-face-sharing T5 tetrahedra within the same lithium cage. Along this jump, T2(48 h ) sites connect T5 sites within the same cage (Figure 1f). The motion within the cage is possible via T5 -T2 -T5 pathways, where T2 sites can be regarded as high-energy ' intermediates ' . The third type is the intercage jump , consisting of lithium motion between T5 positions associated with di /uniFB00 erent cages. T2 acts as an ' intermediate ' position bridging two T5 sites belonging to di /uniFB00 erent cages. Motion between di /uniFB00 erent cages is therefore possible via T5 -T2 -T2 -T5 processes that form continuous face-sharing polyhedral pathways (Figure 1f). In addition, the T4(16 e ) site was proposed as being partially occupied in anion-disordered Li6PS5Cl from molecular dynamics simulations 46 and by neutron di /uniFB00 raction studies on halide-free Li 6.15M ′ 1.5 S6 as well as the related oxysul /uniFB01 des Li6.15M ′ 1.5 S5.4O0.6 (M ′ = Al0.1 Si 0.9 ). 36,37 Lithium di /uniFB00 usion via T4 sites would also provide a continuous face-sharing tetrahedral pathway that connects di /uniFB00 erent lithium cages via T5 -T4 -T5 motion (Figure 1g). Therefore, intercage processes involving T4 sites

Figure 2. (a) Ionic conductivity as a function of the degree of X -/S 2 -site disorder in Li 6 PS5X (X = Cl, Br, I) and related solid solutions. Reproduced from ref 3. Copyright 2017 American Chemical Society. Ordered structures, such as Li 6 PS5I, show poor ionic conductivity, while the anion-disordered Li 6 PS5Br and Li6PS5Cl possess high ionic conductivities. The faster transport associated with higher degrees of anion site disorder is due to (b, c) more delocalized lithium density, as recently shown by MEM analysis of Li6PS5Br. The spatial lithium delocalization can be expressed in terms of the distance of the average lithium distribution from the center of the cage ( r mean ). This quantity correlates well with the conductivity and site disorder (d) and is schematically shown in (e). From ref 47. CC BY-NC 4.0.

should be considered in the argyrodite structure in future studies. Nevertheless, as these have not been unequivocally observed in the materials in the following discussion, we focus on T5 and T2 sites only. Within this three-jump model, longrange lithium di /uniFB00 usion is viable only if all three classes of jumps can occur. 43,45,46

## 2. FACTORS THAT AFFECT ION CONDUCTION IN THE LATTICE

Since the discovery of the high Li + mobility in argyrodite materials, improvements of the ionic conductivity have been achieved by altering the structural properties via elemental substitution as well as by having obtained a better fundamental understanding of the structure -transport relationships. The e /uniFB00 ects of di /uniFB00 erent substitutions on the ionic conductivity are elucidated in this section.

## 2.1. Anion Site Disorder and In /uniFB02 uence on Transport

As described in section 1.1 depending on the composition, sul /uniFB01 de/halide site disorder has been observed. 3 Very poorly conductive Li6 PS5I adopts the anion-ordered structure, while highly conductive Li6PS5Br and Li6PS5Cl adopt anion- disordered structures. Figure 2a shows how solid solutions of these compositions exhibit changing anion site disorder and how it a /uniFB00 ects the ionic conductivity. The faster transport associated with higher degrees of site disorder has been explained considering that changes in anion distribution generate a modi /uniFB01 cation of the anionic charge that in turn strongly in /uniFB02 uences the lithium distribution. A more ' inhomogeneous ' charge distribution in anion-disordered systems generates a spatially di /uniFB00 use and delocalized lithium density, resulting in faster ionic transport. 45,46 More delocalized Li + density and better connectivity between the cages associated with higher degrees of site disorder have been recently supported by maximum entropy method (MEM) analyses of neutron di /uniFB00 raction data for Li 6 PS5Br (Figure 2b,c). 47 A more disperse Li + distribution throughout the unit cell can be described by the distance of the average lithium distribution from the center of the cage (i.e., the nominal free sul /uniFB01 de position). This distance, r mean , 45 correlates well with the degree of site disorder and increase in conductivity (Figure 2d,e). 47

Besides substitution of the halide, 3 changes in the anion site disorder can also arise from other elemental substitutions. For

Figure 3. (a) Li + content of each site per unit cell vs the nominal Si 4+ content of Li 6+ x Si x Sb1 -x S5 I ( x N). The T3(4 c ) site is not shown because of low site occupation), (b) BVSE models of migration barriers with Li6+ x Si x Sb1 -x S5I ( x = 0, 0.7) show signi /uniFB01 cantly lower activation energy for Li-ion di /uniFB00 usion with increasing Li-ion carrier concentration. The site energies in each case are relative values, not absolute values, and do not imply the absolute site energy di /uniFB00 erence between di /uniFB00 erent cases. Reproduced from ref 1. Copyright 2019 American Chemical Society. (c) Activation energies and (d) ionic conductivities of Li 6+ x (Si/Ge) x (Sb/P)1 -x S5I as functions of nominal Si 4+ or Ge 4+ content (increasing Li + carrier density). The data were digitized from refs 1, 4, and 29. The data point for Li 6.1 Si 0.1 Sb0.9 S5 I has been excluded from the plot to better illustrate the overall trend. (e) Schematic illustration of single-ion migration and multi-ion concerted migration with di /uniFB00 erent migration energy barriers.

instance, the isovalent substitution of Se for S in Li6PS5 -x Se x Br a /uniFB00 ects the site disorder. 33 Cationic substitution, such as in Li 6+ x M x (P/Sb)1 -x S5I (M = Si, Ge, Sn), 1,4,29 and variation of the X -/S 2 -ratio with consequent modi /uniFB01 cation of the lithium content for Li 6 -x PS5 -x Cl x and Li6 -x PS5 -x Br x 25,35,48 generate a change in the site disorder and transport properties. However, in the latter two cases, it is di /uniFB03 cult to understand whether the changes in the transport properties can be attributed to the site disorder alone or also to the modi /uniFB01 cation of the charge carrier concentration. The degree of site disorder in Li 6 PS5Br can also be tailored by adopting di /uniFB00 erent synthesis protocols. Anion site disorder seems to be thermodynamically preferred at elevated temperatures and can be ' trapped ' at room temperature by fast cooling, leading to higher ionic conductivity. 49

## 2.2. Li-Ion Site Disorder and E /uniFB00 ects on Ionic Conductivity

In Li-ion superionic conductors, Li ions possess high di /uniFB00 usivity and rapidly migrate within the lattice, which suggests that they are well-distributed over the Li-ion di /uniFB00 usion pathways. From a crystallographic point of view, this means that Li ions partially occupy the available sites within the pathway (resulting in a disordered distribution) and adopt good connectivity  such as face-sharing polyhedra  that sustains fast di /uniFB00 usion. However, whether Li cation site disorder drives high conductivity or the latter leads to a disordered Li sublattice remains unclear. It is obvious, however, that to achieve high conductivity, a disordered Li ion sublattice is required. While the in /uniFB02 uence of changing anion site disorder was described above, another option is aliovalent substitution that creates Li interstitials/ vacancies, which will modulate the Li-ion site energy. 1,36,37 We illustrate this concept below with two examples from our recent work.

Li-rich Li 6+ x M x Sb1 -x S5 I (M = Si, Ge, Sn) has a high conductivity of up to 24 mS · cm -1 but only a minor degree of S 2 -/I -site disorder that clearly cannot lead to a 3 orders of magnitude increase in ionic conductivity compared with the parent phase, Li 6 SbS5I. 1 A highly disordered Li sublattice with four Li sites was identi /uniFB01 ed by neutron di /uniFB00 raction, where the

additional Li ions stu /uniFB00 ed in the lattice are distributed over two new Li sites (Figure 3a). 1 The Li cation site disorder clearly plays a signi /uniFB01 cant role in increasing the ionic conductivity, especially when more Li ions are added into the structure. The additional Li sites (T2) represent high-energy interstitial sites for Li ion di /uniFB00 usion. With increasing (Li + + Si 4+ ) content, the new T2 site occupancy increases, concomitant with a decrease in the T5 -T5a -T5 equilibrium site occupancy (Figure 3a). Increasing the Li + carrier density in Li 6+ x Si x Sb1 -x S5 I pushes the additional Li + into the high-energy interstitial T2 sites. This Li rearrangement in turn increases the site energies as a result of Coulombic repulsion, as depicted in Figure 3b, which lowers the activation energy for Li + di /uniFB00 usion.

Figure 3c,d shows the drop in activation energy and increased ionic conductivity that occur with increasing Li + carrier density in Li 6+ x (Si/Ge) x (P/Sb)1 -x S5 I, 1,4,29 which are accompanied by changes in Li substructure and anion site disorder and hence result in nonlinear behavior. This further supports an alteration of the energy landscape. Similarly, Si 4+ / P 5+ substitution in Li6PS5Br also enhances the ionic conductivity because of increasing Li-ion carrier density. 30 Li-stu /uniFB00 ed, halide-free argyrodite Li 7+ x M x P1 -x S6 (M = Si, Ge) exhibits high ionic conductivities of up to 3 mS · cm -1 with no anion site disorder: 31,32 We note that its structure was only partially resolved by powder X-ray di /uniFB00 raction, and a similarly disordered Li-ion distribution as in Li 6+ x Si x Sb1 -x S5I is expected. Such high-energy interstitial sites for di /uniFB00 usion indicate the existence of many local minima with no strongly preferred positions, leading to a /uniFB02 attened energy landscape for Li-ion di /uniFB00 usion. 50,51 Mobile ions that occupy disordered highenergy sites can easily migrate toward the (occupied) lowenergy sites with low activation energy. The resulting Coulombic force between the Li ions lowers the energy barrier for the Li ion occupying the low-energy site to migrate toward the adjacent high-energy site, giving rise to so-called concerted ion migration; the correlated motion leads to a reduced migration energy barrier (Figure 3e). 52 Thus, the disordered Li sublattice plays a critical role. Aliovalent substitution is a common way to increase the mobile cation concentration and induce such a disordered sublattice, which can be applied to other materials to improve their ionic conductivity.

## 3. SYNTHESIS ROUTES AND EFFECT ON PROPERTIES: PERSPECTIVES ON SCALE-UP

Li-argyrodites are generally synthesized via solid-state reactions. The precursors (typically Li 2 S, P2S5, and LiX) are thoroughly mixed by grinding or mechanical or high-energy ball milling and then pelletized and sintered at the desired temperature to crystallize the materials. Precursors simply mixed by hand grinding generally require longer sintering times to complete the reaction, as the precursors are mixed only at the microscale. 1,4 High-energy ball-milled precursors are homogeneously mixed at the nanoscale and normally have already partially reacted to form a poorly crystalline product because high-energy ball milling also heats up the precursors. Thus, a short sintering time is used to fully crystallize the /uniFB01 nal product. 49 Highly speci /uniFB01 c heat treatment procedures are typically required, as this will a /uniFB00 ect the S 2 -/X -site disorder, 49 and a thermodynamically stable phase will form in a certain narrow temperature window, with higher or lower temperatures typically leading to the formation of impurities. 53 The sintering time also a /uniFB00 ects the purity and crystallinity of the

/uniFB01 nal product, which in turn a /uniFB00 ect the ionic conductivity of the product. The solid-state-synthesized argyrodites Li6PS5Cl and Li 6 PS5Br generally exhibit high ionic conductivities of 0.46 -5 mS · cm -1 . 30,53 -55 However, classical solid-state synthesis requires high temperatures and long sintering times, which are prohibitively costly. Furthermore, high-energy ball milling is unlikely to be practical on a commercial scale. More e /uniFB03 cient and scalable synthetic methods, such as solution synthesis, are required for the practical application of all-solid-state batteries.

We established a direct solution synthesis approach to the argyrodite solid electrolytes Li6PS5X (X = Cl, Br, I), Li6PS5Cl x Br1 -x (0 ≤ x ≤ 1), and Li 6 -y PS5 -y Cl1+ y ( y = 0 -0.5) by fully dissolving Li3PS4 · 3THF and stoichiometrically equivalent amounts of Li 2 S and LiX in dry ethanol, followed by heat treatment at 550 ° C. 2 Dissolution of argyrodite solid electrolytes also allows direct coating of the solid electrolyte onto active materials. 56 Although argyrodites synthesized by a solution route show minor impurities (Li 2 S, LiX, and Li3PO4), the products (Li 6 PS5Cl and Li6PS5Br) still exhibit a high ionic conductivity of ∼ 2.4 mS · cm -1 at room temperature, which is quite close to that of their solid-state-synthesized analogues. The mixed Cl/Br and Cl-rich phases exhibit even higher ionic conductivities of up to ∼ 4 mS · cm -1 . The formation of Li3PO4 is due to hydrolysis of the PS4 3 -units by either the protic solvent (ethanol) or trace amounts of water remaining even in ' dry ' ethanol. Partial decomposition of PS4 3 -results in the other precursors (Li2S and LiX) being present in excess. Of note, the above-mentioned method still requires high-temperature sintering at 550 ° C to fully crystallize the /uniFB01 nal product and induce high ionic conductivity. Lower-temperature heat treatment leads to much lower conductivity. 40 Metastable argyrodite Li7PS6 has also been stabilized at room temperature through a similar solution synthesis method by dissolving β -Li3PS4 in acetonitrile and reacting it with Li 2S in ethanol, followed by heat treatment at 200 ° C. 57 However, the /uniFB01 nal product showed a low ionic conductivity of 0.11 mS · cm -1 . Although the solution synthesis of argyrodite solid electrolytes is promising and scalable, and hence vital to take all-solid-state batteries forward from a commercial perspective, a direct solution synthesis approach for Li 6+ x M x (P/Sb)1 -x S5 I (M = Si, Ge, Sn) has not yet been established. Ball-milled Li 6+ x P1 -x M x S5 I (M = Ge, Sn) dissolved in ethanol  after drying and high-temperature heat treatment  can exhibit high conductivity, but the initial ball-milling step is still required. 58 Finding facile low-temperature synthesis routes for these promising argyrodite solid electrolytes remains challenging. 59

Other factors concerning scalability stem from argyrodites ' instability toward moisture (and also cathode or Li metal stability 60 ), which can be improved by partial substitution of S by O, thus enabling dry-room processing and lowering the cost. Research needs to be conducted to explore optimal compositions that o /uniFB00 er a compromise between high ionic conductivity and stability toward moisture, Li metal, or the cathode. While using high-purity Li 2 S as a precursor poses a problem for cost at present, 61 we anticipate that this would be mitigated by economy of scale if sul /uniFB01 de electrolytes were to become widely utilized in solid-state batteries.

## 4. INFLUENCE OF GRAIN BOUNDARIES ON LI-ION DIFFUSION AND CONDUCTIVITY MEASUREMENTS

The ionic conductivity of solid electrolytes is normally measured by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) on cold-pressed sample pellets. Because of the soft nature of

Figure 4. Low-temperature Nyquist plots for (a) Li 6.7 Si 0.7 Sb0.3 S5 I at -78 ° C and (b) Li6 PS5Cl at -100 ° C show two semicircles, corresponding to bulk and grain boundary contributions, and were /uniFB01 t (shown by the line) with an equivalent circuit. Reproduced from refs 1 and 63. Copyright 2019 and 2020, respectively, American Chemical Society. (c) Conductivity of Li 6 PS5Cl as a function of the stack pressure using titanium plungers or pressed carbon powder as electrodes. Reproduced with permission from ref 55. Copyright 2020 Royal Society of Chemistry. (d) Schematic illustration of a typical EIS setup for ionic conductivity measurements, showing the importance of high pressure to enable good contact between the current collector and solid electrolyte and achieve high solid electrolyte pellet density to lower the grain boundary resistance.

sul /uniFB01 des, grain boundary resistance is generally regarded as negligible. 62 Nonetheless, grain boundary contributions have shown to decrease the total ionic conductivity of recently reported superionic conductors. 1,4 Low-temperature measurements on Li6.7 Si 0.7 Sb0.3 S5 I, 1 and Li6PS5Cl, 63 show high grain boundary resistances that signi /uniFB01 cantly reduce the total conductivity (Figure 4a,b). For instance, cold-pressed Li 6.6 Si 0.6 Sb0.4 S5 I exhibits a high ionic conductivity of 14.8 mS · cm -1 at room temperature, whereas the value for sintered pellets is 24 mS · cm -1 because of improved grain boundary contact and possible other unknown aspects such as changing grain boundary compositions. 1 Fully understanding the origin of the increased ionic conductivity is an important future research direction. Although the high ionic conductivity of sintered pellets cannot be directly applied to all-solid-state batteries, it more closely represents the intrinsic property of the materials. Thus, it is essential to determine the grain boundary contribution to ionic conductivity by low-temperature measurements.

Throughout the literature, a spread of ionic conductivity and activation energy values have been reported for the same solid electrolyte materials. Signi /uniFB01 cant variations can be due to di /uniFB00 erent synthesis details such as material purity, crystallinity, and homogeneity and the synthesis process itself. In addition, di /uniFB00 erent measurement procedures such as sample mass loading, applied pressure, pellet density, and contact between the pellet and current collector will a /uniFB00 ect the values that are obtained (Figure 4c,d). For instance, using carbon powder or a sputtered Au surface as the current collector allows for a conformal surface  almost independent of the applied pressure  which ensures a reliable measurement. 55 In general, high pressure is needed to ensure good contact between the current collector and solid-state pellet during EIS measurements and achieve dense solid electrolyte pellets, leading to lower grain boundary resistance.

## 5. INTERFACE STABILITY AT THE POSITIVE AND NEGATIVE ELECTRODES

In this section the properties of the argyrodites in solid-state batteries are reviewed, with particular focus on the interfacial stability against both electrode materials. Dual electrolyte systems will likely be required for practical systems.

## 5.1. Oxidative Stability or Lack Thereof

In general, di /uniFB00 erent fundamental decomposition pathways need to be considered. First, decomposition of the argyrodites may arise because the material is subjected to potentials outside of its thermodynamic stability window; hence, electrochemical decomposition occurs. Second, interfacial reactions with active materials, which may or may not be induced at higher potentials, lead to a chemical decomposition pathway (Figure 5a).

Like all sul /uniFB01 de solid electrolytes, argyrodites exhibit a relatively narrow electrochemical stability window 64 -66 and decompose during cell cycling. Decomposition forms unwanted interfacial oxidation or reduction products that cause capacity fading due to an increase in interfacial resistance. 67 -69 For instance, Li 6 PS5Cl is oxidized above ∼ 2.5 V vs Li/Li + to

Figure 5. Decomposition of an argyrodite material (e.g., Li6PS5Cl) follows two routes (a): electrochemical decomposition due to the application of a potential larger than the electrochemical stability window (b, d) and chemical decomposition due to the contact with the cathode active material (c, e). Reproduced from ref 72. Copyright 2019 American Chemical Society.

form LiCl and Li3PS4, which decompose into P2S x ( x ≥ 5) and S 0 upon further oxidation (Figure 5b,d) during electrochemical delithiation. 64 -68,70 The experimentally measured oxidation window derives from kinetically driven stability (depending on the carbon used) and is higher than the theoretically calculated thermodynamical oxidation potential. 66,71 In combination with high-voltage lithium metal oxides such as LiNi x Co y Mn z O2 (NCM) or LiCoO2, decomposition of the solid electrolyte increases the cell impedance because of the formation of a cathode -electrolyte interphase and causes continuous capacity fade. 67,72 The decomposition of argyrodite materials is triggered not only by their electrochemical instability against the cathode active material but also by oxidation by water and carbonates adsorbed on the surface of the oxide particles (Figure 5c,e). 70,72 Chemical and electrochemical decomposition both occur, and the application of protective coatings to the cathode particles is necessary. 73

## 5.2. Negative Electrodes: Interfacial Stability of Argyrodite Solid Electrolytes against Li Metal

At low potential, Li6PS5Cl undergoes reduction (of the phosphorus) at about 1.08 V vs Li/Li + during electrochemical lithiation (Figure 6a), 64,68 which would in principle be unsuitable against Li metal (the theoretically calculated thermodynamical reduction potential 66 is even higher at 1.71 V vs Li/Li + ). Fortunately, many argyrodites form a somewhat stable passivating solid -electrolyte interphase (SEI) with Li metal consisting of Li3P, Li2S, and LiX, which was proposed also to occur during electrochemical lithiation. 68,74 The resultant interfacial resistance increases during the /uniFB01 rst few hours of contact and then stabilizes afterward, which indicates the formation of a quasi-stable SEI (Figure 6b). 74 In accord, Li 6 PS5Cl demonstrates stable Li stripping and plating with high current densities up to 1 mA · cm -2 without signi /uniFB01 cant polarization. 75 Similar to the above-mentioned in /uniFB02 uence of pressure on ionic conductivity measurements, plating and stripping can be performed at higher current densities if higher stack pressures are used. 75 Li 6.7 Si 0.7 Sb0.3 S5 I also shows excellent stability with Li metal that is indicative of a limiting SEI, allowing stripping and plating at 0.6 mA · cm -2 for 1000 h, as illustrated in Figure 6c. 1

## 6. CONCLUSIONS AND PERSPECTIVES

Argyrodites show the most promise in terms of electrolytes for solid-state batteries. Not only has it been shown that this class of materials can be engineered for higher ionic conductivities, but also, the interfacial decomposition processes in solid-state batteries do not seem to be too much of a hindrance for operation. Nevertheless, open questions and challenges exist that need to be addressed in the coming years:

- (1) To achieve high-energy-density cells, ultrahigh ionic transport is needed to allow for thick cathode con /uniFB01 gurations. Conductivities in the range of 10 mS · cm -1 are necessary, while incorporation of reducible elements to achieve that aim is not an issue at the positive electrode. Whereas there is a distinct in /uniFB02 uence of the site disorder and Li + carrier density on the transport, why site disorder is induced by some substitutions and how to utilize a combined approach of /uniFB02 atter energy landscapes (ideally with less critical elements than Ge) remain unclear. In addition, exploration is needed to determine the limit of the ionic conductivity and the ideal substituents.
- (2) For large-scale manufacturing, it is important not only to develop more suitable synthesis techniques but also to elucidate their in /uniFB02 uence on ionic transport. Whereas solution synthesis has been developed for many argyrodites, 2 direct coating is still problematic because of the high crystallization temperatures that are required. Although solution syntheses are promising and scalable, the superionic conductors Li 6+ x M x (P/Sb)1 -x S5 I (M = Si, Ge, Sn) have not yet been synthesized by this approach. Finding more facile low-temperature synthesis routes for these promising argyrodite solid electrolytes remains challenging.
- (3) Whereas the decomposition reactions of unsubstituted Li6PS5Cl may not be too detrimental, this still seems unclear in the case of the highly engineered solid electrolytes. How substitutions a /uniFB00 ect the thermodynamic and kinetic stabilities of this class of materials and

Figure 6. (a) Mechanism of Li6PS5Cl decomposition during electrochemical lithiation and when in direct contact with Li metal. (b) SEI resistance increase for Li 6 PS5Cl, Li 6 PS5Br, and Li 6 PS5I after direct contact with Li metal. Reproduced with permission from ref 74. Copyright 2017 Elsevier. (c) Voltage pro /uniFB01 les of Li plating/stripping in a Li/Li 6.7 Si 0.7 Sb0.3 S5 I/Li symmetric cell cycled at di /uniFB00 erent current densities. Reproduced from ref 1. Copyright 2019 American Chemical Society.

how they a /uniFB00 ect overall long-term performance need to be explored.

Taken together, the results from research over the last several years focusing on argyrodites as solid electrolytes have provided a tremendous understanding of ionic transport, led to superior conductivities of greater than 10 mS · cm -1 , and helped to get well-performing solid-state batteries. The future surely holds more options for optimization of this exciting class of materials.

## ■ AUTHOR INFORMATION

## Corresponding Authors

Linda F. Nazar -Department of Chemistry and the Waterloo Institute for Nanotechnology, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario N2L 3G1, Canada; Joint Center for Energy Storage Research, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, Illinois 60439, United States; orcid.org/00000002-3314-8197; Email: lfnazar@uwaterloo.ca

Wolfgang G. Zeier -Institute of Inorganic and Analytical Chemistry, University of Mu ̈ nster, D-48149 Mu ̈ nster, Germany; Helmholtz Institute Mu ̈ nster, Forschungszentrum Ju ̈ lich, D-48149 Mu ̈ nster, Germany; orcid.org/00000001-7749-5089; Email: wzeier@uni-muenster.de

## Authors

Laidong Zhou -Department of Chemistry and the Waterloo Institute for Nanotechnology, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario N2L 3G1, Canada; orcid.org/00000002-8556-3296

Nicolo ̀ Minafra -Institute of Inorganic and Analytical Chemistry, University of Mu ̈ nster, D-48149 Mu ̈ nster, Germany

Complete contact information is available at: https://pubs.acs.org/10.1021/acs.accounts.0c00874

## Author Contributions

⊥ L.Z. and N.M. contributed equally. The manuscript was written through contributions of all authors. All of the authors approved the /uniFB01 nal version of the manuscript.

## Notes

The authors declare no competing /uniFB01 nancial interest.

## Biographies

Laidong Zhou is currently a Ph.D. student in Linda F. Nazar ' s group at the University of Waterloo. He received his Bachelor ' s degree in Nano Material &amp; Engineering at Soochow University in 2016 and his Master ' s degree in Chemistry at the University of Waterloo in 2017. His research mainly focuses on new solid electrolytes and all-solidstate batteries.

Nicolo ̀ Minafra received his doctorate in Wolfgang Zeier ' s group at Justus-Liebig University in Giessen, Germany. He received his Master ' s degree in materials science in 2017 at the University of Padua in Italy. His research is focused on the study of fundamental structure -property relationships in inorganic ionic conductors for applications in energy storage technologies.

Wolfgang G. Zeier received his doctorate from the University of Mainz in 2013, followed by postdoctoral stays at the University of Southern California, the California Institute of Technology, and

Northwestern University. After leading an independent research group at the University of Giessen, he now holds a professorship for inorganic solid-state chemistry at the University of Mu ̈ nster. His research interests are fundamental structure -property relationships in ionic conductors and solid -solid interfaces in solid-state batteries.

Linda F . Nazar received her Ph.D. degree in materials chemistry from the University of Toronto and has held a Senior Canada Research Chair in Energy Materials at the University of Waterloo since 2004. She was inducted as a Fellow of the Royal Society (London) in 2020. Her research interests extend over a wide range of solid-state electrochemistry and ionics, including solid electrolytes, Li-ion and Na-ion solid-state batteries, and other beyond Li-ion batteries.

## ■ ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

L.F.N. and L.Z. gratefully acknowledge /uniFB01 nancial support from the Joint Center for Energy Storage Research (JCESR), an Energy Innovation Hub funded by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), O /uniFB03 ce of Science, O /uniFB03 ce of Basic Energy Sciences. L.F.N. also thanks NSERC for platform support through the Discovery Grant and Canada Research Chair programs. N.M. and W.G.Z. thank the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft for support under Grant ZE 1010/4-1.

## ■ REFERENCES

- (1) Zhou, L.; Assoud, A.; Zhang, Q.; Wu, X.; Nazar, L. F. New Family of Argyrodite Thioantimonate Lithium Superionic Conductors. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2019 , 141 , 19002 -19013.
- (2) Zhou, L.; Park, K.-H.; Sun, X.; Lale ̀ re, F.; Adermann, T.; Hartmann, P.; Nazar, L. F. Solvent-Engineered Design of Argyrodite Li6PS5X (X = Cl, Br, I) Solid Electrolytes with High Ionic Conductivity. ACS Energy Lett. 2019 , 4 , 265 -270.
- (3) Kraft, M. A.; Culver, S. P.; Calderon, M.; Böcher, F.; Krauskopf, T.; Senyshyn, A.; Dietrich, C.; Zevalkink, A.; Janek, J.; Zeier, W. G. Influence of Lattice Polarizability on the Ionic Conductivity in the Lithium Superionic Argyrodites Li 6 PS5X (X = Cl, Br, I). J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2017 , 139 , 10909 -10918.
- (4) Kraft, M. A.; Ohno, S.; Zinkevich, T.; Koerver, R.; Culver, S. P.; Fuchs, T.; Senyshyn, A.; Indris, S.; Morgan, B. J.; Zeier, W. G. Inducing High Ionic Conductivity in the Lithium Superionic Argyrodites Li 6+ x P1 -x Ge x S5I for All-Solid-State Batteries. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2018 , 140 , 16330 -16339.
- (5) Larcher, D.; Tarascon, J. M. Towards greener and more sustainable batteries for electrical energy storage. Nat. Chem. 2015 , 7 , 19 -29.
- (6) Trahey, L.; Brushett, F. R.; Balsara, N. P.; Ceder, G.; Cheng, L.; Chiang, Y. M.; Hahn, N. T.; Ingram, B. J.; Minteer, S. D.; Moore, J. S.; Mueller, K. T.; Nazar, L. F.; Persson, K. A.; Siegel, D. J.; Xu, K.; Zavadil, K. R.; Srinivasan, V.; Crabtree, G. W. Energy storage emerging: a perspective from the joint center for energy storage research. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 2020 , 117 , 12550 -12557.
- (7) Janek, J.; Zeier, W. G. A solid future for battery development. Nat. Energy 2016 , 1 , 16141.
- (8) Manthiram, R.; Yu, X.; Wang, S. Lithium battery chemistries enabled by solid-state electrolytes. Nat. Rev. Mater. 2017 , 2 , 16103.
- (9) Famprikis, T.; Canepa, P.; Dawson, J. A.; Islam, M. S.; Masquelier, C. Fundamentals of inorganic solid-state electrolytes for batteries. Nat. Mater. 2019 , 18 , 1278 -1291.
- (10) Randau, S.; Weber, D. A.; Kötz, O.; Koerver, R.; Braun, P.; Weber, A.; Ivers-Tiffée, E.; Adermann, T.; Kulisch, J.; Zeier, W. G.; Richter, F. H.; Janek, J. Benchmarking the performance of all-solidstate lithium batteries. Nat. Energy 2020 , 5 , 259 -270.

(11)

Chen,

R.;

Li,

Q.;

Yu,

X.;

Chen,

L.;

Li,

H.

Approaching

Practically Accessible Solid-State Batteries: Stability Issues Related to

Solid Electrolytes and Interfaces.

Chem. Rev.

2020

,

120

, 6820

-

6877.

- (12) Xu, K. Electrolytes and Interphases in Li-Ion Batteries and Beyond. Chem. Rev. 2014 , 114 , 11503 -11618.
- (13) Bielefeld, A.; Weber, D. A.; Janek, J. Modeling Effective Ionic Conductivity and Binder Influence in Composite Cathodes for AllSolid-State Batteries. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2020 , 12 , 12821 -12833.
- (14) Kato, Y.; Shiotani, S.; Morita, K.; Suzuki, K.; Hirayama, M.; Kanno, R. All-Solid-State Batteries with Thick Electrode Configurations. J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 2018 , 9 , 607 -613.
- (15) Dewald, G. F.; Ohno, S.; Hering, J. G. C.; Janek, J.; Zeier, W. G. Analysis of Charge Carrier Transport Toward Optimized Cathode Composites for All-Solid-State Li-S Batteries. Batteries Supercaps 2021 , 4 , 183.
- (16) Bachman, J. C.; Muy, S.; Grimaud, A.; Chang, H.-H.; Pour, N.; Lux, S. F.; Paschos, O.; Maglia, F.; Lupart, S.; Lamp, P.; Giordano, L.; Shao-Horn, Y. Inorganic Solid-State Electrolytes for Lithium Batteries: Mechanisms and Properties Governing Ion Conduction. Chem. Rev. 2016 , 116 , 140 -162.
- (17) Zhang, Z.; Shao, Y.; Lotsch, B.; Hu, Y.-S.; Li, H.; Janek, J.; Nazar, L. F.; Nan, C.-W.; Maier, J.; Armand, M.; Chen, L. New horizons for inorganic solid state ion conductors. Energy Environ. Sci. 2018 , 11 , 1945 -1976.
- (18) Ohno, S.; Banik, A.; Dewald, G. F.; Kraft, M. A.; Krauskopf, T.; Minafra, N.; Till, P.; Weiss, M.; Zeier, W. G. Materials design of ionic conductors for solid state batteries. Prog. Energy 2020 , 2 , 022001.
- (19) Zhou, L.; Kwok, C. Y.; Shyamsunder, A.; Zhang, Q.; Wu, X.; Nazar, L. F. A New Halospinel Superionic Conductor for HighVoltage All Solid State Batteries. Energy Environ. Sci. 2020 , 13 , 2056 -2063.
- (20) Zhang, Z.; Li, H.; Kaup, K.; Zhou, L.; Roy, P. N.; Nazar, L. F. Targeting Superionic Conductivity by Tuning on Anion Rotation at Room Temperature. Matter 2020 , 2 , 1667 -1684.
- (21) Kaup, K.; Bazak, J. D.; Vajargah, S. H.; Wu, X.; Kulisch, J.; Goward, G. R.; Nazar, L. F. A Lithium Oxythioborosilicate Solid Electrolyte Glass with Superionic Conductivity. Adv. Energy Mater. 2020 , 10 , 1902783.
- (22) Kaup, K.; Lalere, F.; Huq, A.; Shyamsunder, A.; Adermann, T.; Hartmann, P.; Nazar, L. F. Correlation of Structure and Fast Ion Conductivity in the Solid Solution Series Li 1+2xZn1 -x PS4. Chem. Mater. 2018 , 30 , 592 -296.
- (23) McGrogan, F. P.; Swamy, T.; Bishop, S. R.; Eggleton, E.; Porz, L.; Chen, X.; Chiang, Y.-M.; Van Vliet, K. J. Compliant Yet Brittle Mechanical Behavior of Li 2 S-P2S5 Lithium-Ion-Conducting Solid Electrolyte. Adv. Energy Mater. 2017 , 7 , 1602011.
- (24) Deiseroth, H.-J.; Kong, S.-T.; Eckert, H.; Vannahme, J.; Reiner, C.; Zaiß, T.; Schlosser, M. Li6PS5X: A Class of Crystalline Li-Rich Solids With an Unusually High Li + Mobility. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2008 , 47 , 755 -758.
- (25) Adeli, P.; Bazak, J. D.; Park, K. H.; Kochetkov, I.; Huq, A.; Goward, G. R.; Nazar, L. F. Boosting Solid-State Diffusivity and Conductivity in Lithium Superionic Argyrodites by Halide Substitution. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2019 , 58 , 8681 -8686.
- (26) Sakuda, A.; Yamauchi, A.; Yubuchi, S.; Kitamura, N.; Idemoto, Y.; Hayashi, A.; Tatsumisago, M. Mechanochemically Prepared Li2SP2S5-LiBH4 Solid Electrolytes with an Argyrodite Structure. ACS Omega 2018 , 3 , 5453 -5458.
- (28) Kong, S. T.; Gu ̈ n, O ̈ .; Koch, B.; Deiseroth, H. J.; Eckert, H.; Reiner, C. Structural Characterisation of the Li Argyrodites Li7PS6 and Li7PSe6 and their Solid Solutions: Quantification of Site Preferences by MAS-NMR Spectroscopy. Chem. - Eur. J. 2010 , 16 , 5138 -5147.
- (27) Kong, S.-T.; Deiseroth, H.-J.; Reiner, C.; Gu ̈ n, O ̈ .; Neumann, E.; Ritter, C.; Zahn, D. Lithium Argyrodites with Phosphorus and Arsenic: Order and Disorder of Lithium Atoms, Crystal Chemistry, and Phase Transitions. Chem. - Eur. J. 2010 , 16 , 2198 -2206.
- (29) Ohno, S.; Helm, B.; Fuchs, T.; Dewald, G.; Kraft, M. A.; Culver, S. P.; Senyshyn, A.; Zeier, W. G. Further Evidence for Energy Landscape Flattening in the Superionic Argyrodites Li 6+ x P1 -x M x S5 I (M = Si, Ge, Sn). Chem. Mater. 2019 , 31 , 4936 -4944.
- (30) Minafra, N.; Culver, S. P.; Krauskopf, T.; Senyshyn, A.; Zeier, W. G. Effect of Si substitution on the structural and transport

- properties of superionic Li-argyrodites. J. Mater. Chem. A 2018 , 6 , 645 -651.
- (31) Schneider, H.; Du, H.; Kelley, T.; Leitner, K.; ter Maat, J.; Scordilis-Kelley, C.; Sanchez-Carrera, R.; Kovalev, I.; Mudalige, A.; Kulisch, J.; Safont-Sempere, M. M.; Hartmann, P.; Wei β , T.; Schneider, L.; Hinrichsen, B. A novel class of halogen-free, superconductive lithium argyrodites: Synthesis and characterization. J. Power Sources 2017 , 366 , 151 -160.
- (32) Zhang, Z.; Sun, Y.; Duan, X.; Peng, L.; Jia, H.; Zhang, Y.; Shan, B.; Xie, J. Design and synthesis of room temperature stable Liargyrodite superionic conductors via cation doping. J. Mater. Chem. A 2019 , 7 , 2717 -2722.
- (33) Schlem, R.; Ghidiu, M.; Culver, S. P.; Hansen, A.-L.; Zeier, W. G. Changing the Static and Dynamic Lattice Effects for the Improvement of the Ionic Transport Properties within the Argyrodite Li6PS5 -x Se x I. ACS Appl. Energy Mater. 2020 , 3 , 9 -18.
- (34) Bernges, T.; Culver, S. P.; Minafra, N.; Koerver, R.; Zeier, W. G. Competing Structural Influences in the Li Superionic Conducting Argyrodites Li6PS5 -x Se x Br (0 ≤ x ≤ 1) upon Se Substitution. Inorg. Chem. 2018 , 57 , 13920 -13928.
- (35) Wang, P.; Liu, H.; Patel, S.; Feng, X.; Chien, P.-H.; Wang, Y.; Hu, Y.-Y. Fast Ion Conduction and Its Origin in Li 6 -x PS5 -x Br1+ x . Chem. Mater. 2020 , 32 , 3833 -3840.
- (36) Huang, W.; Yoshino, K.; Hori, S.; Suzuki, K.; Yonemura, M.; Hirayama, M.; Kanno, R. Superionic lithium conductor with a cubic argyrodite-type structure in the Li-Al-Si-S system. J. Solid State Chem. 2019 , 270 , 487 -492.
- (37) Huang, W.; Cheng, L.; Hori, S.; Suzuki, K.; Yonemura, M.; Hirayama, M.; Kanno, R. Ionic conduction mechanism of a lithium superionic argyrodite in the Li-Al-Si-S-O system. Mater. Adv. 2020 , 1 , 334 -340.
- (38) Inoue, Y.; Suzuki, K.; Matsui, N.; Hirayama, M.; Kanno, R. Synthesis and structure of novel lithium-ion conductor Li7Ge3PS12. J. Solid State Chem. 2017 , 246 , 334 -340.
- (39) Kong, S.-T.; Deiseroth, H.-J.; Maier, J.; Nickel, V.; Weichert, K.; Reiner, C. Li6PO5Br and Li6PO5Cl: The first Lithium-OxideArgyrodites. Z. Anorg. Allg. Chem. 2010 , 636 , 1920 -1924.
- (40) Yubuchi, S.; Uematsu, M.; Hotehama, C.; Sakuda, A.; Hayashi, A.; Tatsumisago. Man argyrodite sulfide-based superionic conductor synthesized by a liquid-phase technique with tetrahedrofuran and ethanol. J. Mater. Chem. A 2019 , 7 , 558 -566.
- (41) Deiseroth, H.-J.; Maier, J.; Weichert, K.; Nickel, V.; Kong, S.T.; Reiner, C. Li7PS6 and Li6PS5X (X: Cl, Br, I): Possible Threedimensional Diffusion Pathways for Lithium Ions and Temperature Dependence of the Ionic Conductivity by Impedance Measurements. Z. Anorg. Allg. Chem. 2011 , 637 , 1287 -1294.
- (42) Rayavarapu, P. R.; Sharma, N.; Peterson, V. K.; Adams, S. Variation in structure and Li + -ion migration in argyrodite-type Li 6 PS5X (X = Cl, Br, I) solid electrolytes. J. Solid State Electrochem. 2012 , 16 , 1807 -1813.
- (43) de Klerk, N. J. J.; Ros ł on ́ , I.; Wagemaker, M. Diffusion Mechanism of Li Argyrodite Solid Electrolytes for Li-Ion Batteries and Prediction of Optimized Halogen Doping: The Effect of Li Vacancies, Halogens, and Halogen Disorder. Chem. Mater. 2016 , 28 , 7955 -7963.
- (44) Rao, R. P.; Adams, S. Studies of lithium argyrodite solid electrolytes for all-solid-state batteries. Phys. Status Solidi A 2011 , 208 , 1804 -1807.
- (45) Minafra, N.; Kraft, M. A.; Bernges, T.; Li, C.; Schlem, R.; Morgan, B. J.; Zeier, W. G. Local Charge Inhomogeneity and Lithium Distribution in the Superionic Argyrodites Li 6 PS5X (X = Cl, Br, I). Inorg. Chem. 2020 , 59 , 11009 -11019.
- (46) Morgan, B. J. Mechanistic Origin of Superionic Lithium Diffusion in Anion-Disordered Li6PS5X Argyrodites. Chem. Mater. 2021 , 33 , 2004 -2018.
- (47) Gautam, A.; Sadowski, M.; Ghidiu, M.; Minafra, N.; Senyshyn, A.; Albe, K.; Zeier, W. G. Engineering the Site-Disorder and Lithium Distribution in the Lithium Superionic Argyrodite Li 6 PS5Br. Adv. Energy Mater. 2021 , 11 , 2003369.
- (48) Adeli, P.; Bazak, D. J.; Huq, A.; Goward, G. R.; Nazar, L. F. Influence of aliovalent cation substitution and mechanical compression on Li-ion conductivity and diffusivity in argyrodite solid electrolyte. Chem. Mater. 2021 , 33 , 146 -157.
- (49) Gautam, A.; Sadowski, M.; Prinz, N.; Eickhoff, H.; Minafra, N.; Ghidiu, M.; Culver, S. P.; Albe, K.; Fässler, T. F.; Zobel, M.; Zeier, W. G. Rapid Crystallization and Kinetic Freezing of Site-Disorder in the Lithium Superionic Argyrodite Li 6 PS5Br. Chem. Mater. 2019 , 31 , 10178 -10185.
- (50) Zhou, L.; Assoud, A.; Shyamsunder, A.; Huq, A.; Zhang, Q.; Hartmann, P.; Kulisch, J.; Nazar, L. F. An Entropically Stabilized FastIon Conductor: Li 3.25 [Si 0.25 P0.75 ]S4 . Chem. Mater. 2019 , 31 , 7801 -7811.
- (51) He, X.; Bai, Q.; Liu, Y.; Nolan, A. M.; Ling, C.; Mo, Y. Crystal Structural Framework of Lithium Super-Ionic Conductors. Adv. Energy Mater. 2019 , 9 , 1902078.
- (52) He, X.; Zhu, Y.; Mo, Y. Origin of fast ion diffusion in superionic conductors. Nat. Commun. 2017 , 8 , 15893.
- (53) Yu, C.; Ganapathy, S.; Hageman, J.; van Eijck, L.; van Eck, E. R. H.; Zhang, L.; Schwietert, T.; Basak, S.; Kelder, E. M.; Wagemaker, M. Facile Synthesis toward the Optimal Structure-Conductivity Characteristics of the Argyrodite Li6PS5Cl Solid-State Electrolyte. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2018 , 10 , 33296 -33306.
- (54) Boulineau, S.; Courty, M.; Tarascon, J.-M.; Viallet, V. Mechanochemical synthesis of Li-argyrodite Li 6 PS5X (X = Cl, Br, I) as sulfur-based solid electrolytes for all solid state batteries application. Solid State Ionics 2012 , 221 , 1 -5.
- (55) Doux, J.-M.; Yang, Y.; Tan, D. H. S.; Nguyen, H.; Wu, E. A.; Wang, X.; Banerjee, A.; Meng, Y. S. Pressure effects on sulfide electrolytes for all solid-state batteries. J. Mater. Chem. A 2020 , 8 , 5049 -5055.
- (56) Kim, D. H.; Oh, D. Y.; Park, K. H.; Choi, Y. E.; Nam, Y. J.; Lee, H. A.; Lee, S.-M.; Jung, Y. S. Infiltration of Solution-Processable Solid Electrolytes into Conventional Li-Ion-Battery Electrodes for All-SolidState Li-Ion Batteries. Nano Lett. 2017 , 17 , 3013 -3020.
- (57) Ziolkowska, D. A.; Arnold, W.; Druffel, T.; Sunkara, M.; Wang, H. Rapid and Economic Synthesis of a Li7PS6 Solid Electrolyte from a Liquid Approach. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2019 , 11 , 6015 -6021.
- (58) Song, Y. B.; Kim, D. H.; Kwak, H.; Han, D.; Kang, S.; Lee, J. H.; Bak, S. M.; Nam, K. W.; Lee, H. W.; Jung, Y. S. Tailoring solutionprocessable Li argyrodite Li 6+ x P1 -x M x S5 I (M = Ge, Sn) and their microstructural evolution revealed by Cryo-TEM for all-solid-state batteries. Nano Lett. 2020 , 20 , 4337 -4345.
- (59) Ghidiu, M.; Ruhl, J.; Culver, S. P.; Zeier, W. G. Solution-based synthesis of lithium thiophosphate superionic conductors for solidstate batteries: a chemistry perspective. J. Mater. Chem. A 2019 , 7 , 17735 -17753.
- (60) Zhang, Z.; Zhang, L.; Yan, X.; Wang, H.; Liu, Y.; Yu, C.; Cao, X.; Van Eijck, L.; Wen, B. All-in-one improvement towards Li 6PS5Brbased solid electrolytes triggered by composition tune. J. Power Sources 2019 , 410 -411 , 162 -170.
- (61) Zhao, Y.; Smith, W.; Wolden, C. A. Scalable synthesis of Li 2S nanocrystals for solid-state electrolyte applications. J. Electrochem. Soc. 2020 , 167 , 070520.
- (62) Seino, Y.; Ota, T.; Takada, K.; Hayashi, A.; Tatsumisago, M. A sulphide lithium super ion conductor is superior to liquid ion conductors for use in rechargeable batteries. Energy Environ. Sci. 2014 , 7 , 627 -631.
- (63) Ohno, S.; Bernges, T.; Buchheim, J.; Duchardt, M.; Hatz, A.-K.; Kraft, M. A.; Kwak, H.; Santhosha, A. L.; Liu, Z.; Minafra, N.; Tsuji, F.; Sakuda, A.; Schlem, R.; Xiong, S.; Zhang, Z.; Adelhelm, P.; Chen, H.; Hayashi, A.; Jung, Y. S.; Lotsch, B. V.; Roling, B.; Vargas-Barbosa, N. M.; Zeier, W. G. How Certain Are the Reported Ionic Conductivities of Thiophosphate-Based Solid Electrolytes? An Interlaboratory Study. ACS Energy Lett. 2020 , 5 , 910 -915.
- (64) Tan, D. H. S.; Wu, E. A.; Nguyen, H.; Chen, Z.; Marple, M. A. T.; Doux, J.-M.; Wang, X.; Yang, H.; Banerjee, A.; Meng, Y. S. Elucidating Reversible Electrochemical Redox of Li6PS5Cl Solid Electrolyte. ACS Energy Lett. 2019 , 4 , 2418 -2427.

- (65) Dewald, G. F.; Ohno, S.; Kraft, M. A.; Koerver, R.; Till, P.; Vargas-Barbosa, N. M.; Janek, J.; Zeier, W. G. Experimental Assessment of the Practical Oxidative Stability of Lithium Thiophosphate Solid Electrolytes. Chem. Mater. 2019 , 31 , 8328 -8337.
- (66) Zhu, Y.; He, X.; Mo, Y. Origin of Outstanding Stability in the Lithium Solid Electrolyte Materials: Insights from Thermodynamic Analyses Based on First-Principles Calculations. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2015 , 7 , 23685 -23693.
- (67) Auvergniot, J.; Cassel, A.; Ledeuil, J.-B.; Viallet, V.; Seznec, V.; Dedryve ̀ re, R. Interface Stability of Argyrodite Li6PS5Cl toward LiCoO2, LiNi1/3Co1/3Mn1/3O2, and LiMn2O4 in Bulk All-Solid-State Batteries. Chem. Mater. 2017 , 29 , 3883 -3890.
- (68) Schwietert, T. K.; Arszelewska, V. A.; Wang, C.; Yu, C.; Vasileiadis, A.; de Klerk, N. J. J.; Hageman, J.; Hupfer, T.; Kerkamm, I.; Xu, Y.; van der Maas, E.; Kelder, E. M.; Ganapathy, S.; Wagemaker, M. Clarifying the relationship between redox activity and electrochemical stability in solid electrolytes. Nat. Mater. 2020 , 19 , 428 -435. (69) Ohno, S.; Koerver, R.; Dewald, G.; Rosenbach, C.; Titscher, P.; Steckermeier, D.; Kwade, A.; Janek, J.; Zeier, W. G. Observation of Chemomechanical Failure and the Influence of Cutoff Potentials in All-Solid-State Li -S Batteries. Chem. Mater. 2019 , 31 , 2930 -2940.
- (70) Auvergniot, J.; Cassel, A.; Foix, D.; Viallet, V.; Seznec, V.; Dedryve ̀ re, R. Redox activity of argyrodite Li 6 PS5Cl electrolyte in allsolid-state Li-ion battery: An XPS study. Solid State Ionics 2017 , 300 , 78 -85.
- (71) Richards, W. D.; Miara, L. J.; Wang, Y.; Kim, J. C.; Ceder, G. Chem. Mater. 2016 , 28 , 266 -273.
- (72) Walther, F.; Koerver, R.; Fuchs, T.; Ohno, S.; Sann, J.; Rohnke, M.; Zeier, W. G.; Janek, J. Visualization of the Interfacial Decomposition of Composite Cathodes in Argyrodite-Based AllSolid-State Batteries Using Time-of-Flight Secondary-Ion Mass Spectrometry. Chem. Mater. 2019 , 31 , 3745 -3755.
- (73) Culver, S. P.; Koerver, R.; Zeier, W. G.; Janek, J. On the functionality of coatings for cathode active materials in thiophosphate-based all-solid-state batteries. Adv. Energy Mater. 2019 , 9 , 1900626.
- (74) Wenzel, S.; Sedlmaier, S. J.; Dietrich, C.; Zeier, W. G.; Janek, J. Interfacial reactivity and interphase growth of argyrodite solid electrolytes at lithium metal electrodes. Solid State Ionics 2018 , 318 , 102 -112.
- (75) Kasemchainan, J.; Zekoll, S.; Spencer Jolly, D.; Ning, Z.; Hartley, G. O.; Marrow, J.; Bruce, P. G. Critical stripping current leads to dendrite formation on plating in lithium anode solid electrolyte cells. Nat. Mater. 2019 , 18 , 1105 -1111.